Eye Construction 101
####################

:Date: 2015-01-08
:Category: Life
:Tags: Cancer

Pattii took pictures of the actual eye construction process they use to build
the new face part I will end up wearing. There are so many pictures here that I
pulled them out of the primary story of the process. Pattii also gave me a book
titled "Fundamentals of Facial Prosthetics" that described the process. I used
that as a reference in explaining what is going on here.

Here are the pictures in sequence:

Using the final clay model they painfully worked on during the last few days,
they build a plaster mold shell that will be used to build the final mold for
the silicon version. They have to build two other molds, one for the front of
this clay version, and one for the back.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild2.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 2

In this next shot, they have attached a handle onto the acrylic eye so they can
eventually pull that piece out of the clay. The handle also serves as an
alignment tool that will form a hole in the mold they will use when they place
the eye into the final eye mold.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild3.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 3

Here is the first pouring of the plaster used to make the front side mold. This
shot makes me cringe a bit. They are pouring stuff in my eye! Yikes!

..  image:: images/EyeBuild5.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 5

Blink, you fool!

More pouring for the front mold here. They have to fill it up inside the form
to build the complete mold.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild6.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 6

And, here are the two parts that will be used to build the final silicon face
molds.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild7.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 7

They have pulled out the acrylic eye piece and cleaned it up for placement in
the new face part.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild8.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 8

This step is a bit strange looking. They attach a bunch of nylon fishing lines
to the back side mold. These will end up creating holes in the front side mold
when they build that. The holes will allow a vacuum system to help pull the
silicon fully into the important front side mold when they get to that step.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild10.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 10

After pouring plaster over this mess, and letting it set up, they pull out the
fish lines leaving this part with holes all the way through. This is the back
side of the final mold showing the holes.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild11.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 11

And here are the two mold halves ready for the next step.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild12.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 12

Here, Peggy is starting to mix up the silicon for the face part. The pigment
work she did yesterday will be incorporated into this mixture.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild13.png 
    :align: center 
    :alt: Eye construction step 13

It take a bit of mixing to get everything properly ready for molding. This will
end up being the base of my new skin.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild15.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 15

Once it is properly mixed, Peggy sucks it up into a syringe so they can move it
to the mold.


..  image:: images/EyeBuild17.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 17

The front side mold is put in a heated press that is used to force all the
silicon into every crevice (wrinkle) in the face pattern. They apparently use
this to cure parts as they paint them as well.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild18.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 18

The color on the back side of the face part does not matter, so they use
transparent silicon to fill in that part of the new part. Here, Peggy is
creating a layer of silicon in the mold.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild20.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 20

They spread this out to form part of the final part. Much of this will end up
transparent, and will be either trimmed off or painted over to hide the seam
between new and old skins.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild21.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 21

Next, they cover the silicon with a chunk of plastic sheet (part of the vacuum
forming process.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild22.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 22

On top of the plastic sheet, they start building up a layer of pigmented
silicon that will form the front part of the final eye piece.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild23.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 23

They also set up a layer of the colored silicon on the front side mold.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild25.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 25

With all of that setup, they place the acrylic eye piece with it's attached
stick into place in the mold. The handle make sure this placement is correct.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild26.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 26

Here is the final front-side mold ready for the next step.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild27.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 27

With both front and back side molds ready to go, they put them together.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild28.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 28

The combined mold is put in a vice like contraption that lets them squeeze the
molds together forcing all of the silicon into every part of the molds.
Obviously, some of this get squeezed out, but they simply trim that off.

..  image:: images/EyeBuild29.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 29

Peggy makes sure this is done right! (More pressure, please!)

..  image:: images/EyeBuild30.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Eye construction step 30 

After letting it cure, they pry the mold parts apart, leaving this new face
part. (After a bit of cleaning up, or course!)


..  image:: images/FinalEye2.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Final eye part.

The final phase of this build is described in the previous post. That is where
the artist turns this young looking eye part into a much more mature version
suitable for a college professor!

