Update on Artificial Eyes
#########################

:Date: 2015-02-04
:Category: Life
:Tags: Cancer

It has been about three weeks since I started wearing this new eye on a daily
basis, and I am getting used to it! Better than that, no one is noticing it. I
first thought I would get a lot of attention, but what really happened was that
folks forgot I wore an eye-patch all of last semester, and said nothing about
it! They must all be getting old and forgetful - like me!

The Glue
********

This white Elmer's-like glue used to paste the eye on my face is a mess, but it
works nicely for long enough that I can get through my long teaching day. I am
settling into a pattern for putting it on in the morning and peeling it off at
night (UGH! - Still looks weird!)

You use a cotton swab to paint a 1/4" band of glue around the perimeter of the
eye patch, and then you use a good mirror to paint a similar band around my eye
socket where the patch will live. (My mirror is now magnifying my face to the
point where I spotted hair growing out of what used to be part of my leg. I
must remember to shave higher than normal!)

Contact!
********

What I do next is take a hair-dryer and blow dry the glue until it turns clear.
That takes a minute or so to do both the appliance and my face. Then I have to
hold the new eye piece up to my face, make sure it is reasonably aligned with
my other eye, then let the top stick on my face and slide my finger out from
behind the patch and paste the whole thing on. There is usually a bit of white
glue showing around the edges after this, so I use a bit of water to trim that
off.  All in all, it does not take that long to do this, so I can be
half-asleep and not have the eye upside down!

I have one shot at getting the eye lined up correctly. The one time I messed
up, I tried to pull the thing off and re-align it, but the glue started to let
go very early that day. So I take care to get it right the first time, and I
have not had problems with it falling off.

Wearing it
**********

In fact, the eye patch hangs on fairly well. The top part is where it comes
loose first, which I am sure is because that part of your face moves a lot as
you work your eyes. The nerves on that side are not working, but the skin still
does move a lot, and that movement pulls the glue loose. Fortunately, I wear my
glasses, and they help hold things close to my face, so no one has noticed it
coming loose (except me when I check it).

Especially with my glasses on, the edge is barely noticeable. What surprised me
is that no one notices that the eye does not move at all. Probably since so few
folks make extended eye contact these days! In any case, having an artificial
eye is no big deal, as long as it does not fall off in public. Then small
children will run away screaming, I am sure!

Teardown!
*********

The most time consuming part of the process is removing the thing at night. I
have finally convinced myself that this silicon is pretty tough, so I just take
hold of the loose edge and slowly peel the thing off of my face! Sometimes I
scream, just for the effect! (Not really). I was surprised to discover that most
of the glue on my face stays on the silicon, so cleaning up my face with hot
water is no big deal.

The patch, itself, needs more attention! Peggy told me to soak (really soak) a
wash cloth in hot water, then place the eye on a small plastic cup to hold it
off of the sink, and place the hot rag over the back side of the patch, where
the glue is exposed. You leave it soaking that way for between 30 and 60
minutes. Hopefully, the glue will soak in the water (not always enough,
though), and you can use the rag to wipe the old glue off of the edges. This is
not so easy to do, and I worry that I am wiping away the paint on the front
side as well. It does seem to be losing some paint, but it gets clearer, and my
skin shows through, so it does not show as a problem when I put it back on.

After wiping all of the glue off with water, I wipe it down with an alcohol
wipe to sanitize it, and put it to bed in a plastic cup. Sadly, the eye never
closes, so it sleeps wide wake.

Bottom line
***********

So, life with my new artificial eye is not a huge problem, and I look as normal
as I ever did. Teaching this way feels netter than it did when I wore the
pirate's patch, but it is not so much fun. I do not get to watch people as they
walk by and see the effect the patch has. Most seemed to cringe a bit, and I
know they do not like the idea of losing an eye. I sure did not, but life goes
on, and so do I.

I am still getting messages from folks telling me I am on their prayer lists,
and I want to thank everyone again. Cheryl and I are enjoying this time with no
cancer worries at all. I am off all of my pain medicines and am back to a
normal life, dealing with around 90 students all trying to learn a bit about
computer science. 

Next Steps
**********

My next cancer scan happens after Spring Break, and I plan on going to a
Computer Science Education conference in Kansas City in early March. Cheryl
will be going with me to do more work on our house. She spent the last week up
there for our grand-kid's seventh birthday. (He was born right as I had my
first cancer surgery, so I missed that event. I remember his birthday and
surgery at the same time, sorry to say!) Anyway, Cheryl managed to paint all of
the walls on the second floor, and some of the first floor as well. Scott
installed wall plates, ceiling fans, and light fixtures. We get toilets on our
next trip! Yeah! (Sell your Burger King stock soon, their business will be
going down when we do not have to go there so often!)

..  vim:filetype=rst spell:
