Other People's Code
###################

:Date:  2015-07-05
:Category: Life
:Tags: Teaching, Programming, Art

Here is a quote from one of my chief role models in life. I have changed two
words. See if you can figure out which ones they are:

    “I say and insist that programming in company is much better than alone,
    for many reasons. The first is that you would be ashamed to be seen
    behindhand among the students, and such shame will lead you to careful
    study. Secondly, a wholesome emulation will stimulate you to be among those
    who are more praised than yourself, and this praise of others will spur you
    on. Another is that you can learn from the programs of others who do
    better than yourself; and if you are better than they, you can profit by
    your contempt for their defects, while the praise of others will incite you
    to farther merits.”

Interesting quote, isn't it. It speaks to a style of learning that is all too
uncommon in academia. We teach individuals. Yes they are in groups, but we
focus on individual skills, and have them work alone.  Perhaps this is wrong.

Learning from Others
********************

I teach `Computer Programming`. Check that! I teach `Software Engineering`. There
is a big difference. One can lead to a job, the other to a profession.
Learning how to write computer programs is something I have spent the better
part of 50 years doing. I am not done. I study code, and have done so since I
started learning the craft. Although I cannot speak more than one human
language (in spite of the best efforts of Mrs. Costa trying to teach me Spanish
in high school), I have studied and written programs in over 40 different
computer languages. That never ceases to amaze me!

One of the great resources for beginning programmers is the open-source
community. There are hundreds of thousands of examples of code I call `OPC`:
`Other People's Code`. Some of this code is good, some is bad. All is worthy of
study. That is especially true if you want to master the craft of programming. 

Many masters of their craft tell you to follow the examples of others. In the
art world, copying the work of masters has a long tradition. In the days before
computers were even thought up, apprentices would spend years following the
masters to learn the craft. Sometimes these students would contribute to the
master's work in some small way. I am convinced there should be more of that in
schools today. Textbooks are too dry (and expensive) and do not show you the
good, bad, and ugly of the craft being taught. A good student needs to practice
far more than just doing what is assigned. They need to develop a passion for
this craft they want to pursue, and generate their own projects!

Getting Started
***************

Finding something to practice on can be a challenge. Of course, students are
under pressure to get work done while in a class, but what you do for your own
advancement tells far more about you than the grade you got in that class.

Something has to get you excited about the profession you want to pursue. I
remember building programs while in college that had nothing to do with my
studies. I wrote one hugely complex program to help me build a model airplane
with a complex wing structure full of sweeping elliptical curves. I had to plot
out all the parts by hand, and the program I created did the hard work for me.
I spent more time on that program than on the labs for the physics courses I
took that term. I learned a lot in the process!

You find the time to do the things that are important to you. And understanding
what made airplanes fly was important to me! It still is!

I start many projects, just to learn something about a new technique. I post
much of that work on GitHub, a hugely popular place to find open-source
projects. I search GitHUb for examples of code folks put together the way
I would like to build my own projects. I study the craft of programming.
Perhaps I do not have a single master to learn from, but I have found dozens of
developers, whose work I respect. I use their examples as a guide in creating
my own lecture materials.

Finishing Projects
******************

One of the biggest problems I have grappled with in my life is not finishing
projects. I have suffered countless lectures on how bad a sin it is to leave work
unfinished. Oddly, my life role model was given the label of "chronic
procrastinator", and yet he is one of the most respected and well known people
the human race has ever produced. 

In his own words (slightly modified):

    "Programs are never finished, only abandoned"

Why do I leave so much work unfinished? I have always believed that my interest
in a topic was to understand it well enough to know if it was a worthwhile
topic in the first place. I would study something until I understood it. Then I
would think about where that topic fit in to the world I envisioned. I would
add it to my set of ideas worth considering in the future, and I would move on
to the next topic. In some respects, I am a student of all technology, not a
master of any single technology. I choose to go just deep enough to see the
value in the technology, and no deeper.  Others who go deep into a technology
may well become a master of it, but they may also miss the broader landscape of
the technological world we live in. 

This approach led to some interesting opportunities in my professional career.
I was able to discuss just about any advanced technology folks brought up in
our work, and ended up being an advisor to my bosses. I was placed in positions
to make decisions on the technologies we would pursue, and placed in charge of
teams doing the technical work.  That was something I am pretty proud of. 

I sometimes wish I were teaching in a graduate program where I would have
"slave labor" (aka graduate students) to pursue the projects I start, just to
see them finish. Me? I am off exploring another new technology!

The Path I took
***************

I am convinced that all those hours wandering the halls of the Smithsonian as I
was growing up created this intense curiosity about the world I live in. I
would wander into a random hall and be fascinated by whatever I saw there. Some
of the displays caused me to marvel at the theme of the display. Others caused
me to marvel at the craftsmanship of the artists who created the displays.
Indeed, my friendship with Andre De Pizzini, a staff artist who worked in the
Department of Entomology in the Museum of Natural History, offered me a chance
to visit the offices where these artists created the displays. The art got my
attention as much as the topic being displayed.

..  image:: images/AndreBug.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Andre's illustrations of a bug head

..  note::

    I can not believe what the Internet can do, these days! I "googled" Andre,
    and came up with a journal article that featured his illustrations. Andre
    taught me a lot about drawing with pen and ink, my favorite medium as a
    young artist while in high school.  

    I watched Andre spend hours staring through a microscope looking at insects
    and drawing what he saw. Those days are probably over with all the digital
    photography now, but he was a master of his art back then! 

Programming is Creative
***********************

As much as I was into art back in high school, I knew my passion was more
technical. I wanted to understand how airplanes flew, and my drawings from back
them were all about airplanes. I had to tell my art teacher, Dr. Vincent
deGregorio, that I was not interested in his efforts to get me a scholarship in
art at American University. I was going to study aeronautical engineering at
Virginia Tech.

But my creative side found a new outlet. When I first discovered computer
programming in 1965, I found a new way to create something in the technical
world I was so fascinated by. Writing has always been considered a creative art
form, and writing computer programs is a creative activity. You express your
solution to some problem in a form a computer can follow to do something good
for some human user! 

Becoming good at this takes a lot of practice, just as becoming good at art
takes a lot of practice. You need good role models to help you along the path
you have chosen.

Role Models
***********

Back to my role model's quote.

I found my quote in an interesting `article by Jon Brook
<http://comfortpit.com/drawing-exercises-leonardo-da-vinci/>`_. 

We all need role models. If you were lucky, perhaps your parents were role
models, or your favorite teacher. I have a hard time viewing anyone in sports,
these days, as role models. Just when you think one is worthy, the news tells
you otherwise.

Who was my role model? (You know if you clicked on that link!)

Leonardo Da Vinci!
==================

What were the two words I changed? Drawing became programming, and drawings
became programs.

Leonardo studied the works of others and was himself studied as well. I suppose
we can safely say he was the master of his craft. His interests were far
reaching and legendary. And, many of his greatest works were unfinished. 

Probably his greatest: "The Adoration of The Magi", hanging today in the
Ufrizzi in Florence:

..  image:: images/the-adoration-of-the-magi-1480.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Adoration of the Magi

So, if you want to become a master of anything you are passionate about, study
the works of others. Practice your craft, and become better at it each day.
Start projects, and do not fret over projects you never finish. The point of
all the effort is to learn! Never stop learning until you simply cannot learn
more. (When that happens, you will be no more. Perhaps the world will finish up
where you leave off!)

His comment on unfinished work. We saw it earlier:

    “Art is never finished, only abandoned” – Leonardo Da Vinci

..  vim:filetype=rst spell:
