Phantom Works
#############

:Date:   2016-08-11
:Category:  Life
:tags:  Workshop, Hobbies

Well, it is official now, there will be no F4 ride for me! So sad! The
money is gone!

Instead I have a new shop in the back yard, almost ready to go! It was
not quite supersonic, but it went up FAST! Here is the build site at 7AM
on Wednesday:

..  image:: images/ShopSite.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Build site

And here  it is at 5PM that afternoon:

..  image:: images/BasicShop.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Basic Shop building

The entire thing arrived on a flatbed trailer with three workers who
pounded it together with little fuss.

..  image:: images/ShopTruck.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Shop on a truck

All the parts were cut to size, and all they had to do was nail
everything together.

There is no way the thing will blow away, even though it is just sitting
there, on top of the grass. There are about 3 billion nails in that
thing, shot in by the constant music of three nail guns firing all day
long.

Here the crew is raising the walls after setting up the floor structure:

..  image:: images/ShopWalls.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Raising the walls

And here they are starting to put up the roof:

..  image:: images/ShopRoof.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Installing roof

Today, (Thursday), an electrician came out and ran wires through the
framing so I can have power and AIR CONDITIONING! Only half of the
building will be cooled, and that will be my robot/amateur radio area.
The uncooled part will be for wood working, and other sweaty endeavors!

Tomorrow, the crew returns to install the side door, insulate, and
panel the front half of the building. Then I get to move some of my toys
in. I still need to get some electrical work done to send power and data
to the building, but that will happen soon enough.


Cheryl says we need a nice walkway across the yard to the building, and
that may happen after everything is finished.

What is Phantom Works?
**********************

The building's name is "Phantom Works". Since I worked at McDonnell
Aircraft while in school, and McDonnell basically paid for my college
education, I owe a debt to the F4 Phantom II jet I was supposed to get a
ride in. Since I cannot do that, I named the building after the research
group at McDonnell where new aircraft were designed. I worked with that
group one term, but before they adopted that name. I suspect they stole
the idea from the Lockheed "Skunk Works" Where Kelly Johnson designed
cool ships like the SR-71. In any case, Boeing kept the name alive when
they bought out McDonnell. The group still seems to be active in St. Louis
today, and I stole the name for my workshop. I plan to hang their logo
on the front of the building before it is finished!

..  image:: images/Phantom_Works_logo.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Phantom Works logo


I have some work to do yet, moving stuff into the building. But there is
sits! Nice substitute for the ride, as Cheryl reminds me! It will also
last longer than the one hour ride I was going to do!. Maybe I will
build a model of the F4 in the shop. It probably will not be as fast.
1600 MPH is a bit much for a model airplane!
