Pushing the Edge
################

:date: 2014-10-12
:category: Life
:tags: Aviation, Motorcycles, Stories

I spend a lot of time teaching students skills I hope will lead to good jobs
in a profession they love. I had the joy of such a life, and I want to pass
that joy around.

So, how do we learn anything in this life? To me, it has always been by
"pushing the edge".

Racing Motor Vehicles
*********************

It seems every teen-aged male, and a lot of females as well, like to go fast in
automobiles at some point in their lives. How do you learn to do that?

Well, right after you pass that drivers test is probably not a good time to
start trying to go fast (especially if the driving examiner is watching you
pull away). Instead, a good way might be to take a car to a safe place, like a
race track, and get a good instructor, like one trained in racing, to show you
how it is done in a safe way.

You could do that, but the best way is to take your time and get good at it as
you go!

You will start off slow, and build up a set of skills over some finite amount
of time. I know this is counter to everything the current generation seems to
believe. They want to do something instantly, without investing any time to
learn how to do things properly, safely, and skillfully. And many of them "just
do not have time!" (I think I should mention the word FaceBook at this point,
but I will not!).

I did a bit of just what I am talking about when I first learned how to drive,
but I used a motorcycle as my learning tool, since I got my first car late,
several years after I started riding motorcycles.

I got my first motorcycle while working at McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis as a
freshman at Virginia Tech. That was my ride to work every morning, and it was
just a simple Honda 90cc bike that looked like this:

..  image:: images/honda90.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Honda 90

I remember that this thing cost me $400, a fair amount of money back in 1965. I
put a ton of miles on this bike, storing it in my grandmother's basement when
I went back to school. It was my ride to work for over three years.

Riding exposed to the elements is both fun, and not so fun. One of the first
things that amazed me was how much the temperature changed as you drive along.
Even in Summer, when it was warm enough to ride with short sleeves (dumb if you
fall off, by the way), as you drop down into a valley, the temperature can
change dramatically. I later learned in my studies at Tech, that warm air
rises, and cold air sinks, and guess where it sinks to? Those valleys is where,
they could be COLD!

I also learned not to think that everything that looks like fog really is!

One night, I was riding along the Missouri river after a hot date with Dody
(that is another story), I thought I saw a fog bank in the headlight up the
road. Shoot, I can drive through fog as long as I can see the edge of the road,
so I did not slow down at all. Bad mistake. I hit the "fog" at around 50 miles
per hour only to find out it was a swarm of locusts. Bang, Squash, Splat, Ugh!
I was pelted by those things for almost a full minute as I struggled to escape
that swarm, it was huge!

I was so covered in bug-guts, that I immediately started looking for a car wash
and spent over an hour trying to get the dead bugs off of me and my lovely
little Honda. It was over a year before I stopped finding chunks of bug leg or
something wedged in some crack in the bike.

After I graduated from Virginia Tech, I started Graduate School, and upgraded
my motorcycle to a Honda 175. 

..  image:: images/honda175.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Honda 175

This was a much nicer bike, and it could sail down the highway with traffic
much better than my old 90. I was able to go faster just as a result, so I
guess I was learning how to be comfortable moving along in the wind!

I lived in a trailer park, in a trailer I bought for $4000. I had to live off
campus, and someone told me it was much better to own a place to live that you
could sell later, than to pay rent for an apartment, and get nothing back in
the end. So the trailer was my first investment, and I ended up selling it for
$3000 almost five years later. Not bad!

The motorcycle, and my first car, a 1964 Chevrolet Impala SS (nice!) was now my
primary ride, but I still rode the motorcycle, except in the worst of winter.

Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on your point of view), I had a
neighbor, John Donley, another Tech student, who was trying to start a
motorcycle business. He and I started riding out in the mountains of
Virginia on our street bikes. Eventually we ended up in McCoy Virginia where we
found an abandoned coal mine, with a bunch of pits where coal had been removed,
a few mine shafts, and trails all up and down the area that led to other
operations. A great place to ride motorcycles, but definitely not a paved road
to be seen.

As it turned out the place was full of guys riding motorcycles of all kinds
here, and we joined in. But, the guys were real-life coal miners from West
Virginia, and these guys were just plain nuts! They thought nothing about
slugging down a beer (or more), jumping on their bikes, and blasting off into
and out of those "pits" leaping into the air as they did.

..  image:: images/zeroElectric.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Jumping Bike

This actually is a picture of a new electric motorcycle that works like my old
dirt bikes, (but I am getting ahead of myself!)

John and I joined in, but our street bikes were not up to this kind of riding.
We were going fast, and leaping into the air as well. Great fun, but it has its
problems.

On one leap I made coming out of a pit, I was standing on the foot-pegs when
the bike hit the ground. The bar holding the foot-pegs on the bottom of the
bike broke off and I immediately sat down. Hard! I could not ride further for
several minutes until the pain subsided.

Shortly after that, I decided that I needed to move to a bike better suited to
this kind of riding, so I bought a Kawasaki 350. (Notice anything yet, I kept
buying my next bike with an engine twice as big as the last one!)

..  image:: images/BigHorn.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Kawasaka Big Horn

This was a real off-road vehicle. No more breaking things just because I jumped
over something. I rode this thing all over south-west Virginia, usually on dirt
roads, or old trails. We discovered a MotoCross track near the trailer park
where John and I lived, and we would spend afternoons and weekends practicing
going fast, and jumping over stuff for hours. We both became pretty good at it.
I could go around corners with the bike sliding sideways, under power and going
faster as we did it. Wow, we had a blast! 

My problem with all of this MotoCross riding was not liking doing all of that
with a dozen other motorcycles right next to me. That is what MotoCross is all
about! So I decided to try riding Enduros, a solo event where you have to ride
cross country, rarely on paved roads. You ride up mountains, across streams or
rivers, whatever, and do it on a schedule that worked out to 24 mph. If the
bike breaks, you have to fix it on the trail, then make up the lost time! Get
ahead of schedule you lose points, get behind, you lose points. The rider who
gets to the finish line, 100 miles away from the start,with the fewest points
wins the event. For quite a while, just getting to the finish line was
challenge enough! I got better at it over time.

Eventually, my friend from my high school days, Jim Coffin, who raced sports
cars, noticed I was having just as much fun as he was at 1/10 the cost, so he
got a bike and together we went off to a number of National Enduros all over
the country. We went to the races in Southern Virginia, Delaware, Illinois,
Ohio, wherever we thought there would be a good ride. And we both finished
these things, but we won no trophies. Each event was a challenge, and we pushed
ourselves to do this better and better each time we rode an event. We rode in
almost 19 National Enduros over the course of a few years. We were having a
ball learning how to ride off-road over all kinds of obstacles. (If you have
read any of my other blogs (see `AMA Nationals
<http://www.co-pylit.org/blog/the-ama-nationals.html>`_), you might know that
Jim only has one eye, and the fact that he could do this is what told me I
would survive the recent loss of one of my eyes!)

We even took our bikes to California one summer, and spent several weeks riding
in the mountains and desert out there, it was a vacation of a lifetime. We rode
in one desert race with almost 700 riders all lined up aiming at a bonfire five
miles out in the desert, then it turned into an 80 mile race across trails.
When the flag dropped, all those bikes (except two: Jim's and mine) took off in
a huge cloud of dust. We sat there until the dust settled a bit, then we took
off.  By the time we hit the five mile marker, we passed over 300 bikes that
had crashed into each other in that dust cloud. The leaders were miles ahead of
us. But, by the time we finished, we were both in the top 50 or so. Pretty
good for novices at desert racing!

Giving up Racing
================

After I had managed to finish those 19 Enduros on my Kawasaki, I had to give it all
up. I graduated from school (a second time) and went into the Air Force with a
real job.

Just before that. John and I went to Johnson City, Tennessee, and picked up
several new motorcycles for his new business. Mine was a Moto Guzzi Ambassador
(800cc, see, I am still on track)

..  image:: images/MotoGuzzi.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Moto Guzzi Ambassador

This was a "cruiser". It was smooth as silk at 80-90 mph (fast enough?) I rode
it for several years, and eventually moved on to my next learning adventure:
Flying!

Reviewing Edge Pushing
**********************

Before I go there, let's review. By the time I stopped actively riding, I had
pushed myself to learn new skills on a motorcycle, over a long period of time.
I could read the trail or road, see a problem, and knew how to avoid the
problem. I could do this without even thinking.  I rode a motorcycle knowing
that some idiot could kill me if I let him/her get close. So, I always had my
eyes peeled for the idiots, and never had any close calls.

That does not mean I never fell off!

There is an old saying in racing: 

    If you do not crash once in a while, you are not going fast enough.

This is really pushing the edge. You need to get to the point where you can
recognize that going further just will not work, until you learn more, or get a better vehicle. If you have never failed at
anything, how do you know your own limits.

I tell my students to try new things, experiment with new tools, and
programming languages. Learn where their edge is, and push on it to move it
further along. Maybe I could never have ridden my motorcycle at 80 miles an
hour up a ramp and over a wire fence when I got that first Honda, but I sure
could when I finally stopped!

Was that fast enough? Apparently not. John bought a Factory Road Racing version
of the Moto Guzzi that looked something like this:

..  image:: images/RacingMotoGuzzi.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Racing Moto Guzzi

This thing had a license plate, a tiny headlight and tail light, and it was
legal to drive on the highways. The fact that the top speed was over 160 mph
meant it was too cool not to ride. I could not afford it, but I did take this
thing out one afternoon and got it up to 145 mph before I chickened out! That
dashed line in the middle of the road was solid white, and the wind was blowing
over my glasses so fast I could hardly see. I came up on a left turn off the
highway and decided to see how well this beast stopped, and I was going to make
the left turn. So I hit the brakes when I thought I could stop, and durned near
launched myself over the handle bars. That thing could go fast, and it stopped
even faster. That is what it takes to be competitive in road racing, something
else I did for a while back then! 

On to Flying
************

I tell people you are immortal until you are 35, then it occurs to you that you
could get killed doing the things you do. That was me on motorcycles. I decided
that when I got into the Air Force, and was earning enough money to do it, I
would learn to fly!

Once again, I started off slow. I took lessons at the Aero Club on
Wright-Patterson AFB, near Dayton Ohio. In fact, I learned to fly on the exact
same field the Wight Brothers used for their flying while they were in Dayton,
Huffman Prairie. My first airplane was a simple "Honda 90". Wait, that was
before, this was a Cessna 150, a nice little bird with tail number N16188. I
still have my old log book where I recorded information about each flight.

..  image:: images/cessna150.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Cessna 150

My bird was yellow, but this what she looked like! (Why are all airplanes
female? Ask all the male pilots!)

This was way cool! Flying around Dayton in a high-wing airplane made for great
sight-seeing, but I was trying to learn how to control this thing, and it was
WAY different from driving, or riding a motorcycle. This beast could end up
upside down if you were not careful, and if the engine quit, you could not
drift off the road and call AAA, you had to figure out how not to kill yourself
and land it in some farmer's field!

Eventually I had a life changing moment. I have written about this before (see
`Solo <http://www.co-pylit.org/blog/solo.html>`_). That first time, when the
instructor steps out of the plane and tells you "go around the pattern (pilot
talk for taking off, going in a big oval track around the airport, and landing
back where you started), and if you do not kill yourself, I will wave you on
and you do it a few more times!" GULP! Way too soon, I was alone, 2000 feet in
the air, in control of an airplane by myself for the very first time, and so
busy I did not have time to be scared. I remember every second of that first
flight, and the three more trips around the pattern I made that day!

I graduated to a bigger plane, a Cessna 172, that could carry four people. 

..  image:: images/cessna172.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Cessna 172

I could take a few friends on trips after I finally got my Private Pilot's
license. In flying this bird, I learned how to navigate cross-country, and
began my Commercial Pilot's License training. I had to get better at this if I
was every going to get a job that involved flying. I was not really interested
in that, but learning more was me, pushing the edge again!

I moved up to this bird, one with retractable landing gear. More stuff to learn
to control:

..  image::  images/BeechSierra.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Beechcraft Sierra
    :width: 600

I even took on of these birds from Dayton, Ohio to New Orleans and ended up
spending four days there while a thunderstorm sat over the town. So sad, I had
to hang out on Bourbon Street learning how it got its name!

Pushing Yet Another Edge
========================

After the check ride with the examiner who issued my Commercial Pilot's
License, I told him this was great, but I did not know enough. He said of
course, you need to learn how to fly multi-engine aircraft. That is something I
never did. What I was talking about, and I told him this, was that I still felt
that I did not know enough about flying to really feel like I was in control of
the airplane. All of the training had been flying with the airplane right-side
up. What about that other side, when the airplane is upside down. Could I
handle that?

One Saturday afternoon, sitting with some friends in an observation area at the
end of the runway at WPAFB, we saw a little Cessna 150 that belonged to the
club approach for landing. When it was about 200 feet above the ground, it
suddenly spun upside down. We were shocked, and we were sure we were about to
witness an airplane crash. Instead, the airplane completed the roll, and landed
safely. I later learned that a skilled Air Force pilot was training a student
on that flight. When they hit something called the "wake turbulence" left in
the sky from the very heavy C-141 transport plane that landed right in front of
them. The little bird was thrown upside down by what amounts to a horizontal
tornado. Had that student (or me) been alone at that moment, there would be no
blog articles! 

So, right after that, I pushed that edge again, and signed up for my first
aerobatics course in one of these:

..  image:: images/decathlon.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Bellance Decathelon

You not get into this ship, you strap it on and hook up a 5-point harness that
locks you into the craft and the parachute you wear "just in case"! Wait! What
was that? Yep, you actually might break this thing doing aerobatics. They do
not call it "tearing holes in the sky" for nothing. 

My instructor, who flew a bi-plane in air shows at King's Island Amusement Park
near Cincinnati, was also a wing walker. After a half hour briefing on all the
ways we could exit this bird if something broke (let me see if I remember. If
the right wing breaks, go out the left side, or the front. If the left wing
breaks, well, you get the idea.) I asked him if it was rational for we to fly with
someone who climbed out of the door or an airplane and walked around on the
wings while it was flying 100 mph a couple of thousand feet in the air! His
reply was classic: "I haven't fallen off yet!". (It was the "yet" part that got
to me.) Anyway, he taught me how to cruise in an airplane flying upside down.
Wow, who painted Ohio on the ceiling? I was amazed that I could keep my feet on
the rudder pedals while hanging from my 5-point harness. Remember that pen in
your pocket.  It is on the ceiling now (must remember to put it in my pants
pocket next time!).

Now, I knew the basics of how to fly like this, I had flown radio controlled
model airplanes for years doing just that. So when he asked me to roll the
airplane 360 degrees to the left, I knew we were going to rotate the ship along
the horizontal axis, be upside down for a bit, then continue on until we were
right-side up again.  Simple. I gulped, remembered that if I screwed this up,
he could save my but, and did what he asked. And it worked! Wow!

Later he told me that most of his students chickened out when the wings got
vertical, and they never completed the roll.

Next he said "let's do a loop". "Anything I should know about this?" I asked.
"Sure", he replied. "Pick up some speed, say 140 mph, then pull the stick
straight back and hold it". I pushed the nose down and let the airspeed go up,
them pulled back on the stick which cause the plane to up and over in a
complete loop. I was a little sloppy, but it worked. Hey, this is fun.

The next one was a biggie! "Let's do a hammerhead stall!" Yeah, right! I know
what that one is. You pull the airplane up as though you are going to do a
loop. When it is going straight up, you keep going in that direction as the
speed bleeds off. Just before you stop going up, your push hard on one of the
rudder pedals, and the airplane rotates around the wing-tip, and you end up
going straight down. Eventually you pull out of the dive and you are back,
straight, and level! Simple.

Well, I did as I was told. He told me to watch out the side window and keep the
wing perpendicular with the horizon. That would mean I was climbing straight
up. I felt the ship slow down, pushed the pedal, and glanced forward to make
sure I was going straight down, then watched the wing again to keep it
straight.

The instructor tapped me on the shoulder and said "loop out the front window".
Wow, who painted Ohio all over that thing, and why is Ohio getting bigger? "You
might think about pulling out". Oh yeah. I guess he is right. We do not want to
become a splat on the Ohio landscape.

After the entire flight was over, I learned a valuable lesson. Adrenalin is
interesting stuff. I was so wrapped up in the flight, pulling all of those G's (forces tht make you feel REALLY heavy) that I did not notice how violently we were moving around. I was fine until I walked away from the airplane, and I almost threw up. That was the adrenalin letting go. Phew. The instructor paid me an outstanding complement as well. I was the first student he had had, and he had trained quite a few, who did all the maneuvers completely on the first try. Shoot, I knew what I was supposed to do, I had studied this for years. I never got to try it out before. I was thrilled to hear that I was a pretty good pilot after all!

Well, this note is getting a bit long, so I will wrap it up here.

The Moral of the Story
**********************

Wait, there is a moral? Would I waste your time telling silly stories if I did
not have a point to make? Heck no!

The moral is simple. You will never learn how to do anything if you do not try
new things. You cannot become good at anything without practice. So, pick some
skill you want to learn, and take a step. The edge will keep that step small.
But once you have made it, push on the edge. Push yourself to learn more about
this new thing. As you learn more and more, you will push harder and harder,
exploring the new skills to their fullest. I believe this is the way we should
live our lives. If you are really satisfied doing very little, and never trying
those things you always told yourself you would do "someday", you will reach
the end of your life having missed out on great adventures. I know, there is
not one thing I have done in "pushing the Edge" in my life that I regret. I
would do them all over again in a minute!

So, turn off that TV, put down that smart phone, get your but off of the couch,
and learn something new. And, do not put off those things you always wanted to
do. (Hey Collings Foundation! Where is my F4? I want my ride! `Phantom Memories
<http://www.co-pylit.org/blog/phantom-memories.html>`_)


Do that every single day, and you will live a full life! And if cancer ever
strikes you, you will not regret the things you never did, or never learned.

When you have your own adventures under your belt, tell your stories in a blog
to inspire other folks.

That is now, and has always been my plan! I think I am on track!

Over and out!






