Ka Chunk!!!
###########

:Date: 2015-11-14
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories, Cancer

..  image:: images/TicketPunch.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Punching your ticket

Did you hear that? Last Thursday, I got my ticket punched for four more months
at M.D. Anderson!

These trips are always stressful, and I was my usual apprehensive self on the
trip. Since we started visiting doctors at noon, Cheryl and I drove over to
Houston early in the morning. We dodged the insanity of Austin traffic (Austin
is full, by the way - go away!) and made it to Houston around 10am. We checked
into our motel, stopped at a local Barnes a& Noble to get more current reading
material in case we had to wait a bunch, then headed over to the hospital.

We measure the cancer threat by how high up in the parking garage we end up
driving as we hunt down a parking spot. Our best results seem to be when we
land on level 5, and that was where we landed. I had to check in for my CT scan
around 12:30, and we got there about an hour early. Thankfully, they called me
in pretty quickly, and I was escorted into the IV prep area by a nice nurse.

Since my last test did not go so well, due to a bad IV, I asked her how good
she was. The nurse told me her small group usually do about 160 "sticks" a day,
but they are moving towards a goal of 250 per day! Yikes, that is one every 2
minutes for an entire 8 hour shift 

Even though she said she was good, it still took her two tries to get the IV
in! I hate that part. It is bad enough to sit through the sting of the IV in
the back of your hand, but twice is pretty evil. I have had to sit through four
tries, I fired that nurse after she failed three times!

Normally, I get to sit with the IV back in the waiting area, but this time, I
wend straight back into the "Krispy Cream" area where eight CT scan donut
machines live. After changing into a suitable blue hospital top, I was guided
to the machine after only about five minutes of sitting in a waiting area.

I was hooked up to the "contrast" tube that pumps something into the IV to make
any cancer cells show up better, than I laid down with my head in a cradle and
my arms tight by my side. The view on the ceiling was looking up to the sky
through some dogwood trees. I commented on that, since I am from Virginia, and
the CT tech told me she went to school near Williamsburg, Virginia. Shoot, we
both come from the same place! 

Then she left the room, and I was told that the contrast would start. Last
time, my arm exploded when they did this, since the IV was not really in a big
vein. I had to make them stop! This time, it still hurt, so the IV was not
perfect, but I managed to get through that short pain period. 

As the contrast flows into your body, you get warm from the inside out. It is a
weird sensation. I feel it the most near my stomach (and lower), I suppose
because a lot of blood vessels wander through there as blood flows toward your
legs. 

Then she told me not to swallow and the donut ride began. 

The CT machine has a spinning ring that circles you shooting those CT particles
(whatever they are) shoot through you to sensors on the opposite side of the
ring.  The result is a full image of every inch if your body through and
through. Some cool software and they can explore your innards as they like. 

Anyway, the ride was pretty short, then the tech came back in, pulled the IV,
and aimed me back down the hall to change back into my real clothes, and I was
done. Pretty quick.

I went back into the waiting area and found Cheryl exploring Mount Vesuvius on
her iPad (why, I discovered had something to do with her Bible readings while I
was going through the test, bless her!)

I walked up to the chair she was sitting in and peered over her shoulder. She did
not notice me, but everyone else in the area did. As they started laughing, she
looked up to see why, and discovered me back far sooner than expected!

Lunch
*****

We were done early enough to wander down to the cafeteria on the first floor. I
was not very hungry (blame that on nerves) and we had a nice breakfast in La
Grange on the drive over, so lunch was light. We were ready for our visit with my
new "Top Doc" at 3pm.

The Verdict
***********

We checked in to the Head and Neck clinic about a half hour early. Another
surprise! I was called in to "vitals" right away. Then a few minutes later, we
were guided into one of those infamous waiting rooms with the evil door knob!
(See my older posts to find out more about that!)

When the door knob did move, A Physician's Assistant named Dr. Garcia came in
and told me the news. They had looked at the scans (wow, only two hours old)
and saw nothing! This result is not official, that happens in a week or so, but
the news was enough that the anxiety started to go away!

Dr. Garcia talked about how I was doing ("That is for you to know, and me to
find out!" I reminded him!) and then he left and returned a few minutes later
with Dr. Lai.

Dr Lai told me "We are not treating cancer now, we are monitoring you!" That
was the best thing I could hear! That means he is quite pleased with what he
sees, and is not worried about anything. Well, I still need to be watched, but
this is great news.

He looked me over and said everything looked great. We did talk about my
drooping mouth, and he is going to insist the Dr. Yu revisit my problem,
perhaps we will do something about that! He was also pleased that I had a tube
put in my ear by Dr. Scholl a few months ago!

And we were done for the day! Wow, that was as fast as I have ever been through
this kind of visit!

We still had other doctors to see on Friday, but Thursday went very well.

Dinner
******

We left the hospital and drove up North to visit with Cheryl's high school classmate,
Sharron Tonsing, and her husband Dan (and Little Bits, the ornery dog they
adopted!)

We visited, had dinner at Olive Garden, then Cheryl and I returned to our
favorite La Quinta for the night.

Thursday
********

Ears
====

Our first visit on Thursday was with an Audiologist, who gave me an extensive
hearing test. This one was the full deal. They put a pressure gadget into my
ear with put pressure on my ear drum, and recorded how it responds to a range
of tones, then we did the normal hearing tests. Finally, he did a bone
conduction test and it turned out everything basically works, but the fluid is
still in my er dampening sounds on my left side, and I am losing hearing on my
right side, probably due to old age (who said that?)

There was not much new in this visit, but I will have Dr Scholl look at this
when I see him back in Austin.

Teeth
=====

Next up was with a dentist to see if my broken tooth, which snapped off at the
gum line last week, can have anything done. That tooth was in the middle of 70
radiation shots, so it was pretty brittle, and was mostly metal thanks from the
Air Force drive to replace all real enamel with metal over the years!

The young doctor looked at things, and said there was not much they could do,
and called Patti in to look over my eye. (They cannot pull anything in that area
because it will take forever to heal, thanks to all of that radiation!)


Eye
===

I had Patti trim down y artificial eye piece a few weeks back, when the plastic
eyeball fell out. She decided that a bit more trimming was in order, so she
took care of that. The place looked like Grand Central Station and a bunch of
folks (students of various sorts) wandered in for a look! Even Doctor 37, Dr.
Carduso, showed up for a peek!

Finally, the real dentist showed up

Teeth (v2)
==========

Dr. Hofstead looked at the broken tooth, and was a bit concerned about the gum
in that region. I have been having some bleeding there when I brush my teeth,
but my dentist back in Austin has not been too concerned. Dr Hodstead decided
that a biopsy was in order, so she headed off to bring a surgical tool set back
into the room. I had to sign the normal bunch of papers for the procedure, then
she asked if I needed Novocaine! I told her that whole area was numb already,
thanks to the surgeries, so she grabbed the snipper, reached in a took a piece
off. She asked me if that hurt (no, doc!) so she grabbed two more snips.

And I was done!

We left the hospital around 11:30am, another fast visit!

Micro Center
************

We did the normal visit to Micro Center so I could unwind by exploring toys for
my classes. I bought a few robot parts, and we headed back to Austin. We were
home around 4:30PM, just in time to feed the cat!

Success
*******

Like I said, these trips are stressful, but I have a great support team, and,
trust me, you all help! I focus on what is happening, and less on what might
happen, so I can report all this to you on this blog. All of that helps. 

And the prayers help as well, Again, Cheryl and I are very grateful for all of
your support.

Now I have to go back to work! Students are waiting!

Have a great day, I plan to!

..   vim:filetype=rst spell:
