My First Best Friend
####################

:Date: 2015-06-07
:Category: Life
:Tags: Family, Stories

I got some sad news yesterday. My first best friend, William L. Berry, died last
April from an aneurysm. I was in the middle of trying to reconnect with him,
and got this message through a Facebook connection I made a few months ago. We
just missed sharing some of our childhood stories. That makes me sad.

In 1946, my parents were living in a small apartment in Roslynn, Virginia, just
across Key Bridge from Georgetown, and very close to Georgetown University
Hospital where I was born. I spent the first three years of my life in that
apartment (as did Ted Koppel, I am told, although we never met). When my oldest
sister, Connie (aka Carlene - sorry sis!) came along, my parents decided to
move into a bigger apartment in Falls Church. Tyler Gardens was what it was
called back then, and we lived at 204 South Virginia Ave. The apartment is
still there!

Right next door lived the Berry family. There was William (Elton), who worked
in the State Department, Ruth, his wife, who stayed at home with her first
child, William Junior. William, or Bill as I always knew him, was my age, so of course
we became friends. Our moms spent a lot of time together figuring out how to
tame these two unruly kids they had brought into the world.

Kindergarten
************

Bill and I used to wait together until it was time to go to St. James
Elementary School, where we went to kindergarten. I remember sitting on the
floor with him, drawing pictures of stage coaches. I do not remember if TV was
around yet, but we both knew what those coaches looked like, and we attempted to
draw pictures showing them being chased by robbers. That was what we knew of the
"wild west" back them, and we also played at that in the yard near our homes.

Exploring Washington
********************

We did not see much of Mr. Berry back then. Elton was busy at the State
Department, so Ruth hauled both Bill and I all around the D.C. area, often to
the Smithsonian, where we used to climb on World War I tanks that were outside
the Arts and Industries building. The A$I building was the original home of the
Air and Space Museum. We would wander inside that building, looking at models
of ships, and real airplanes hanging from the ceiling. It was heaven for two
kids like us.

The Evil Army
*************

I do not remember much about a game Bill made up during this time, but it went
like this. 

There were evil forces working around Washington D.C., and their headquarters
was in the Washington Monument. If they saw us, we were doomed, so any time we
drove around the city, we were always on the lookout for that monument. If
either one of use spotted it, we had to duck behind the front seat to escape
from them. 

It got worse.

The evil forces all drove Buicks, so we had to hide from them as well. The
Buicks we were the most on alert for were those old ones that had three holes
on the hood on each side. 

..  image:: images/EvilBuick.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Evil Force Buick

I never figured out what those holes were for, but surely, it was to shoot ray
guns at us. So we hid from those as well! Hey! We were kids!

Moving time
***********

Bill and I hung out together for several years, until my family got a bit
bigger, and we moved into a still larger apartment a few blocks away. Bill's
family moved even further away, almost two miles to a small brick home. We
still got together a lot, as our moms were also best friends by now. I remember
Bill having a really cool comic-book collection, and he was very hooked on
Scrooge McDuck. He had dozens of comics on that character. 

Bill and I would spend hours in his room, sometimes sitting in a big wooden box
he used to store his collection. We would pour over those comics, reading about
silly comic characters. I always had a vision of rich folks with rooms full of
coins stored in them. Scrooge would dive into his stash. How he did that and
did not get a concussion from hitting all that metal is a mystery!

Bill's Big Adventure
********************

As we got old enough to move to high school, Bill's dad was assigned to the
Embassy in Ghana. The family was gone for several years, and I got into model airplanes
with new friends I met at school. When Bill came back, we continued to hang
out, and he would tell me tales of living in Africa. He had quite a time there.

One day, Bill and I were exploring a new construction site in Falls Church. The
site was full of steel beams that would become a new building, so Bill and I
started climbing on them playing steel workers. I took one misstep, and fell on
the beams, cutting my chest on a sharp edge.

Tough kid that I was, I tried to shake this fall off, but I was bleeding and we
decided to get back home, so Bill's mom could check me out. My mom was working
in the Pentagon!

The reason I remember this so well, was Bill's family had a visitor that day, a
doctor from Africa was in town, and he was in Bill's living room in full native
dress when Bill and I ran into the room. I was shocked by what I saw, I never
had seen any living person in such an outfit. I had seen things like this in
the Smithsonian, though! Bill, on the other hand was just fine, this was normal
to him.

The doctor jumped into action, took my shirt off, and inspected the near fatal
wound (or so we thought!). He put some ointment on me ( I am sure that was some
kind of magic stuff) and proclaimed me cured! I was going to live! Hooray! 

Moving again
************

As we both got a bit older, my family moved to Dunn Loring, Virginia, about 10
miles outside of Falls Church. Bill's family moved to Bethesda, Maryland, so
our visits were further apart. Somewhere along the line Bill's family got
bigger, and a sister, Anne, joined him. Like all good boy kids do, we ignored
her! (I had sisters of my own to ignore as well!)

I would go out to Bill's home for sleepovers from time to time. I remember one
long night when we stayed up way too late watching a science fiction horror
movie together ("Day of the Triffids" - a classic!). Neither of us could sleep
that night, so we stayed up the entire night talking about the adventures we
were sure to have when we grew up. We also kept a sharp eye out for invaders
from another planet! 

Losing Contact
**************

As we moved into high school, Bill and I stopped seeing each other as much, but
our moms kept us in contact. Those two were still best friends. They would get
together for breakfast often, either in Maryland, or back in Virginia.
Eventually I lost touch with Bill.

Reconnecting
************

I had graduated from College, and was living in Dayton, Ohio, when I had a
chance to reconnect will Bill and his Family. It was 1982, and Bill's sister,
Anne, who I still knew very little about, was getting married. I was invited,
with my Mom, of course, to the wedding.

What was memorable about that weekend, was that my mother was retiring from 31
years working in the Pentagon that same week. Of course, I came home for the
retirement ceremony, which was a big deal!

I wore my Air Force uniform to the Pentagon, where a room full of Army Generals
stood up and told tales of how vital my mom had been to the workings of the
Office of the Chief of Staff. Even President Regan sent her a present, a signed
picture of the White House, for her retirement. It was something!

A few days later, we all gathered in an old church in Alexandria for Anne's
wedding. She became Anne Berry Howe that day, and Bill and I had some time to
visit and catch up on what we were doing.

Photography
***********

Eventually, Bill moved to Los Angeles, to start a career in photography. I know
he was active at that for many years. He got married while there, to the
daughter of a film executive from Mexico, and ended up living in Beverly Hills.

Through my mom, and a few phone calls, I heard tales of life there, and it was
something out of a movie. On one of my trips to LA, I even drove through
Beverly Hills, looking around and wondering where Bill might be. Silly me, I
never tried to set up a visit while he lived there. 

So Bill and I again lost contact. 

Last Vists with the Berry's
***************************

My mom and Bill's mom never stopped being friends. Eventually, Elton retired
from the State Department, and he and Ruth moved into an apartment in
Arlington, Virginia. I took my mom to visit with them on one of my trips back
to D.C while I was still living in Dayton. I remember spending a nice evening,
then going out to dinner with those two fine folks. We spent hours telling
stories of all of us living back in Falls Church. It was a great visit.

Then I lost all of them!

For years, I had no idea what had happened to any of them. I sent Christmas
cards to Ruth and Elton, but never to Bill. Eventually, those cards started
being returned, and I feared the worse. 

Then, on a whim, I did a bit of searching on the Internet for information about
Anne. Surely, I could find out something through her.

Anne Berry
**********

I really wish I had paid more attention to Anne when we were kids. She turned
into a pretty neat person, in spite of growing up around Bill and I as kids! I
finally found an article about her wedding that was published in the New York
Times. She was a founding member of the Rockville Dance Company in NYC, and
from what my mom told me, was very well respected in the dance community in New
York. I got no where in finding a way to contact her, though.

Finally, I tried looking her up on Facebook. Bingo! She had a page there. (Who
does not, these days).

So, I posted a message on her page, asking if she would let me know what had
happened to Bill. I heard nothing back for several months.

Then last night, she reached out. She was new to Facebook, and had not seen my
message until that day. Sadly, Bill had died, and she broke that news to me in
her message.

I wish I had tried harder to make contact months ago, but that chance has now
been lost.

Bill's Legacy
*************

I am going to call Anne, and visit with her in a day or so. I wanted to get my
memories in order before I did that, and even get this post on my blog. I
looked up Bill's Facebook page, and found several of his photographs there. On
Anne's page I found this picture of the Berry family:

..  image:: images/BerryFamily.png
    :align: center
    :alt: The Berry Famile in Mexico

That is Anne on the left. Next to her is Elton, looking just like I remember
him, a distinguished man. Next to him is Bill. On the right is his brother,
John, who I know hardly anything about.

I can see Bill even behind the beard. That kid who grew up with me, and who sat
with me as we were getting ready for school, drawing silly kids pictures. He
left behind two kids, who I hope inherited some of his spark for life. I know
they will miss their dad. I miss him even more now, knowing he is gone.

The Moral of the Story
**********************

There is a moral in all this. You will have many friends during your life, and
as you get older, you will have memories of them, and of the times you shared
long ago. Do not let those friendships go. They are valuable to you and to them
as well. I admit that my cancer battle has pushed me into reliving much of my
life, and writing about those memories in this blog. The regrets I have now,
are for those contacts I have lost. I missed a chance to visit again with Bill,
and there are others I need to find as well. I wonder about them, and may yet
reach out to see how they are doing.

Thank you, Anne, for letting me know about Bill. I wish you and your family the
best as you grieve for him. 

Rest in Peace Bill! 
