Renovation New Year
###################

:Date: 2016-01-01
:Category: Life
:tags: Stories

Happy New Year, everyone!

At least we are hoping for one. I will know more later in the month.

What does one do on New Year's Eve with no television, way too cold to go
anywhere, and we are too tired anyway? Well, we do what any folks who spend way
too much time watching "Renovation Addicts" on HGTV would do, we celebrate in
our "reno" (boy, am I getting to hate that "word")

Cheryl and I had a nice New Year's Eve dinner at the HyVee grocery store two
miles from the house (everything else near here was closed), then settled in
for the evening. Our side window looks out to our neighbor's house where they
have a big-screen TV on a patio room, and we thought we would camp out and in
our dining room and watch the ball drop vicariously through their window, but
they went to bed early, and missed the whole thing.

So, being a good geek, I leaped into action, and fired up my Mac, and found the
live stream from Times Square in NYC. We cracked open a bottle of cider (using
a screwdriver, of course, since all we have are tools in this place. Then I had
to scramble to find something to use as glasses. Fortunately, I had a couple of
empty A&W Cream Soda bottles, that with a little razor blade work (dangerous),
we had glasses.

So we celebrated the New Year in this style:

..  image:: images/NewYearsGeek.png
    :align: center
    :alt: New Years Eve

Back to Work
************

This morning, we are back to work on the house. We are trying to get more work
done on the kitchen cabinets, since the counter tops and appliances will be
delivered in a couple of weeks! Today, Cheryl's son, Scott, and "the grandkid" aka
"Mr. Colin" are here to work/play (depending on which one you are talking
about).

Here is our dining room in it's current state:

..  image:: images/JarboeDining.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Jarboe DIning Room

And our cool new fireplace. Scott put that mantle together from scratch! Pretty
nice job:

..  image:: images/JarboeFireplace.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Jarboe Fireplace

Back to Reality
***************

We head back to that wild west town known as Austin in the morning, and then we
have to get ready for my round-four adventure. My sisters are coming in later
in the week to stay with us and keep Cheryl company while I take a nap at M.D.
Anderson in a couple of weeks.!

In the meantime, forget all your cares, and enjoy the beginning of another
year. Hopefully this one will go well for you and your loved ones! We are
planning on it!

Happy New Year from Cheryl and Roie!

