##########
The Gadfly
##########

:date: 2010-02-03
:category: Life
:tags: Aviation, Stories

In a previous post, I talked about my experience as a kid – seeing a model
airplane fly an amazing single flight. I have had the plans for that airplane
sitting in my office at home waiting for me to get them framed. A few weeks
back, I drove down to San Antonio to visit one of my favorite hobby shops –
Second Chance Hobbies near Randolph Air Force Base. The owner of that shop –
Jim Rice – has become a friend over the years, and I had not visited him since
I I got so focused on dealing with my medical problems over the last nine
months.

As I walked into the shop on this trip – I was stopped in my tracks! There
hanging from the ceiling of his shop was the GadFly – the very airplane that I
saw fly that summer day as an eight year old paper boy! Of course it was not
the very craft, in fact it was a slightly larger version of the airplane.
Colors and markings were exactly as I remembered them. It was like walking
through a time machine!

As it turned out, the man who built the model had died and his son could not
bring himself to throw the model out, so he offered it for sale in the hobby
shop. Jim hung it up so visitors could see it. Actually he hung it up so I
could see it – and see it I did! Coincidence? I doubt it!

I did not buy the craft that day – I needed to think about where I would put
it. Instead, I went back last weekend on a shopping trip to the Randolph
commissary with my wife. Needless to say, the plane came home with me. Where
did id land – nowhere! It is flying in the ceiling of my office at home – right
where it belongs!

Here she is – in all her glory!

..  image:: images/Gadfly.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: GadFly model

Another coincidence – On the day I visited the hobby shop, the builder’s father
was standing there. As I bought the plane, he told me about his son and
grandson’s experiences with it, and I related my story as well. It was another
of those memorable moments in life – one you cannot explain, but one you will
not forget! I promised him that his son’s handiwork would get an honorable
display. I may take it to school from time to time – maybe it will inspire yet
another young career.


