##############
Responsibility
##############

:date: 2011-03-28
:tags: Veterans, History, Stories

Do you take responsibility for your actions? I must admit that there have been
times in my life where I have found myself wanting to hide from my actions,
rather than own up to them. Almost every one of us has this ghost in our
closet. Here is a tale of one man who took his responsibilities very seriously.
It is a humbling tale for the rest of us!

I seem to have a patriotic theme going in this blog. Sorry, that is me being
the retired Air Force officer. (No, I am not sorry for that at all! I am pretty
proud of my service! And, I think we all should be more patriotic, and support
those who serve this nation!) Here comes another such tale, one I admit I did
not know.

It all started on a Spring Break driving trip up to Kansas City. My wife and I
were driving through Boring, Oklahoma. (Never heard of that place? I believe it
extends from border to border along I-35.) To be fair, there is a lot to see on
that drive, but looking at field after field gets pretty dull, eventually. The
only good thing about traveling along the Interstate system these days is the
reasonable cell phone service. So, in a fit of borebom, my wife fires up my
iPad and surfs for something interesting. The radio seems to be playing a bunch
of James Taylor songs, so she Googles James Taylor and we discover that it is
his birthday. So, we spend the next bunch of miles learning everything there is
to know about him. (Actually, everything there is to know about him on
Wikipedia.) Soon, we are experts on his life. Back to the boring drive.

Soon, we hit the Kansas border, and I am wondering who we can learn something
about next. Well, what famous person hails from Kansas? Dorothy and Toto come
to mind first, then Dwight David Eisenhower! Naturally, “I like Ike”!

Now, I will not go into his life, since most of us are familiar with that to
some degree. Instead, I will talk about the defining moment in his life. D-Day,
the 6th of June, 1944.

If you know your history, Eisenhower was appointed the Supreme Allied Commander
of the Allied Expeditionary Force by President Roosevelt, and in that position
directed the planning for Operation Overlord. This was the allied force’s
attempt to retake Europe from the German occupational forces. This was a huge
responsibility, one that consumed the allied nations for months in the
planning. It was a do or die operation. If it succeeded, we had a good chance
to drive Hitler back and defeat his plans for world domination. If we lost,
well that was a possibility too dire to even consider. Or was it.

Obviously, we won the war, and Eisenhower went on to become President of the
United States. But in those last days before the invasion, he was the the kind
of man we all wish we could be.

If the invasion failed, far too many would be looking for scapegoats. Someone
to blame for the disaster. There would be plenty of places to lay the blame.
Commanders who did not carry out orders as directed, troops who did not fight
hard enough, supply systems that broke down, even the poor weathermen who never
seem to get things right. So Eisenhower was covered, right?

Instead, he wrote this:

    “Our landings in the Cherbourg-Havre area have failed to gain a
    satisfactory foothold and I have withdrawn the troops. My decision to attack at
    this time and place was based on the best information available. The troops,
    the air and the Navy did all that bravery and devotion to duty could do. If any
    blame or fault attaches to the attempt, it is mine alone.”

Now, that is class! This note was never published. It was found in the pocket
of one of his aides long after the invasion had succeeded.

Who do you know today who would even think to do such a thing before some huge
event that they were responsible for? Find that person, and make that person
your role-model. Not some overpaid celebrity skating on the edge of jail of
worse.

I sat in a huge auditorium as a kid and listened to Ike in person. I was too
young to know what kind of man I was listening to. But I am thankful for men
like Ike who served as my role-models when I was growing up. Since my mom
worked in the Pentagon, I got to meet a bunch of pretty impressive veterans
from that “Great War” (if there is such a thing!) I grew up with their kids in
Washington, DC. We were the real “baby boomers”.
