Texas Flooding
##############

:Date: 2015-06-01
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories

Boy, I wish I knew how to swim!

I took lessons many years ago, but never really mastered the skill. I sink to
the bottom and walk to shore!

For the last few weeks, Texas has been wet. That weird stuff falling from the
sky is totally unnatural in Texas, and no one here really knows what to do with
it. The streets get wet and slippery, drivers run into each other. Gee, it
feels like a blizzard in Nebraska!

The news said that we have had enough rain in Texas this month to cover the
entire state in a foot of water. Yikes! That has caused huge problems around
here and thrust Texas into the national news!

We have been in the middle of a drought for many years. Lake Travis, about 30
miles west of Austin, is so low that all those megabuck lake-front houses now
have their boats sitting on dirt with the water, yards away from the docks.
There is land visible in the middle of the lake no one has seen for decades!

Grass in many yards has died off, or gone dormant. Brown is the new green! We
are not allowed to do those simple things like wash the car, or water the yard.
It has been a hard time for anyone growing anything!

Boom, Pow!
**********

A week ago, while cousin Bill was visiting us from Wyoming, we were sitting in
the family room watching an old movie (John Wayne in "Donovan's Reef") when we
heard the rains start to howl. The wind was whipping around and the rain got
really fierce. Then we heard a loud crash, saw a lightning bolt hit nearby, and
everything got dark! We grabbed flashlights and candles, gathered the cat near
the kitchen pantry where we would duck if things got much worse, and waited.

We waited for some time, hoping the power would come back on so we could watch
the rest of the movie, but that did not happen. Instead, we went for 14 hours
with no power. We gave up on the movie, and when things quieted down, we all
went to bed in the dark, I mean really dark. There were no lights anywhere,
except for the glow of the flashlights we were using to move around in the
house!

Microburst Time
***************

What was going on outside was not visible until the next morning. Our house and
yard looked pretty normal when we got up.  The rains had quit, but still we had
no power. Bill and I decided to do a reconaissance mission around the
neighborhood to see what things looked like.

Our house looked fine, and the neighbors on either side looked OK as well.
There were a few tree limbs down, but nothing out of the ordinary for such a
storm. We have a canvas-topped metal cover on part of our back porch, held down
with a pile of bricks on each leg, and it was just fine.

But one block to the north, things took a serious turn for the worse. The
neighbor at the beginning or our block had several big branches down, and
across the street, whole trees were toppled.

One more block to the north and the street looked like a war zone. There were
about eight big power company trucks on that street, with crews in the back
yards of a row of houses where power lines went through to service our
neighborhood. The scrambled trees took out the power lines, which accounted for
our lack of power. It took quite a bit of work to clean out the broken trees
and restring the power lines, but that eventually got done.

We decided that we had been hit by a "microburst". Formally that is a localized
chunk of violent wind, known to have caused airplanes to crash when they hit
one. These things are not exactly tornadoes, but they are close. (Some of our
neighbors do think we got hit by a tornado, but it was very small if it
happened at all). The area affected by this burst was about six square blocks.
In that area, there were trees down, fences down, and water everywhere!

We managed to get through all of that with minimal loss. We ended up pitching a
lot of food in the refrigerator, since things in the freezer managed to thaw
out over that amount of time.

Neighbors Rebuilding
********************

A week later, it is still raining a bunch, but the area is recovering. There
are crews all over, cutting up the fallen trees and rebuilding the downed
fences. A few are working on repairing or replacing roofs that have been
damaged as well. All in all, we got through it in pretty good shape.

Others were not so lucky! Those, you need to pray for!

Texas Flooding
**************

Texas sits on rock. In Texas, what we call a post hole digger, you probably
know as a jackhammer! I first discovered that fact when I tried to put up the
flagpole in my front yard. Six inches down, I hit granite! It took hours with a
metal spike to break through the rock deep enough to put up my flag!

What that means is that when it rains, there is no soaking in going on.
Instead, the water simply runs off to the lowest place it can find. Usually
this ends up in normally dry creek beds, which quickly turn into raging streams
that cover the roads. About a half mile to our north such a creek often fills
up to a depth of over six feet and floods over the main road through our
neighborhood. Cars do not dare drive through those floods, since the water can
sweep them off of the road!

The first summer we lived in this house a storm resulted in a flood over this
same road about two miles to the north. A teenage driver tried to drive
through the water to get to a gas station about a block further up the road.
His truck stalled in the water, probably because he was going too fast. He
opened up his door, and stepped into the water, and was swept under the truck
where he drowned! That water was only about a foot deep!

In Wimberly, Texas, about 30 miles from here, a small river flows through the
middle of the town. Wimberly is famous for its many quaint shops and is
a popular stop on drives through the hill country west of Austin. This storm
turned that small river into a raging flood that wiped our dozens of homes, and
swept away dozens of people as well. They are still searching for many of those
missing in all of this.

We have friends who live there, but they got through OK. I have another friend
who flies radio-controlled drones with cameras on them for a living. I suspect
he is down there now, since they are using these drones to search for victims
where people cannot go.

You can see all of this on CNN. It is a scary thing to live through!

Memories of Flooding
********************

I have seen this kind of thing several times in my life, and it is scary! After
strong storms, I have driven to low water crossings I have used in my drives
around the area to see how they look, and been stunned by what I saw. One
crossing I used to go over on my way to Texas State University several years
ago, turned into a 50 yard wide raging river that was carrying trees, sheds,
all kind of things, by me at over 40 miles per hour! It was amazing to see.

Albuquerque Floods
==================

New Mexico has lan much like Texas, except the rock under the ground is probably lava from old volcanoes. When it rains there, water does the same thing it doe sin Texas, heads for the lowest spots, and ends up flooding everything on tthe way. In Albuquerque, the low spot is the Rio Grande River, and the city has constructed a number of drainage ditches through town to handle the occasional floods. Those work pretty well, but west of town things are different.

Albuquerque sits in a valley with the ground sloping up toward the mountains in
the east, and to the top of a mesa in the west. West of that mesa sits another
valley where a dry river once flowed through. Normally that area is just desert
land, where cattle ranchers try to raise their stock. One day, we had a huge
rain storm sweep through the area. Nothing much happened in town, but on the
news that afternoon, they had pictures taken from the side of Interstate 40,
where a rancher had been caught in a flash flood. He was standing on the roof
of his truck abount an inch above the raging mess of water that was everywhere
around him. 

The rancher told the news folks later that he looked out the window of his
truck and thought he saw a dust storm approaching fast. Too late, he realized
that was a wall of water. He scrambled up to the roof of his truck as the water
rose in muinutes to fully submerge the truck. Drivers on the Interstate saw
this and called for help. In the end, the Air Force sent over a rescue
helicopter to pluck hin to safety, where he stood and watched the water and
talked to the news folks! Pretty amazing, and far too common in those parts of
the country!

Omaha Floods
============

When I first moved to Omaha, Nebraska, the Missouri River was flooding in a big
way. I rented a Cessna 150 and flew over the river between Omaha and Kansas
City, and had a hard time finding the river itself. The entire river valley was
under water. Even the Interstate road was covered in many spots! It made me
glad I lived on much higher ground!

Missouri Flooding
=================

Then there was the time I took my grandparents on a drive to Silver Dollar City
near Branson Missouri. That was the time I was working as a co-op student at
McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis, and drove my dad's mother down to visit my
mother's dad on his farm. That was the only time these two folks ever met, even
though they only lived about 200 miles apart!

We were driving down a road after rain storms had passed through the area. The
road crossed a river over a bridge, then followed the river along the side of
a steep hill to another bridge where it crossed back over the river.

I remember crossing the first bridge and noticing that the river was very full
and moving fast. I looked in the rear view mirror as I drove along that hill and
saw water rising up and flowing over the road behind me! I saw the second
bridge coming up and stepped on the gas to get to it as fast as I could. I was
pretty sure we were OK, so I did not tell my grandparents what I saw.

As we crossed the second bridge, I saw a bunch of state police cars blocking
the bridge. The road was officially closed, but not from the side I came from.
As we passed that blockaide, the road was fully covered with water. Close call!
And, one that stayed with me for years. I have not forgotten that image of
water rising up to cover the road. I do not want to think what would have
happened if I had been just a little bit slower and getting out of that mess!

A Minor Fun Flood
*****************

I have one more memory of a minor flood that was kind of fun. When I was in
graduate school at Virginia Tech, I raced in motorcycle enduros, races where
you ride at a fixed speed of 24 miles-per-hour for about 100 miles over
anything but paved roads. We went up hills, through forests, and even crossed
rivers on the bikes!

I was riding in the Lonesome Pine Enduro, a two day even based in Abington,
Virginia, that covered 350 miles of beautiful mountain country in the far
southwest part of the state. There were over 400 riders in that event.

Somewhere in the early part of the first day, they had us cross a small river,
about 20 yards wide, but not very deep. In fact, it had been almost dry when
they laid out the race course. However, a few days before the race, it had
rained a bunch, and the river was up several feet. Not so deep that riders
could not cross, but deep enough, and fast enough, to be a challenge.

My Kawasaki 350 had not problem getting through the crossing. I had made sure
it was waterproof, and the air intake was high up under the seat, just in case
I had to do something like this. I was fine!

But a rider who had been with me for several miles was not so lucky. She got to
the middle of the river crossing and fell off. I happened to see this, as did a
couple of other riders, so we all jumped back into the river to help her out.

We got to her quickly enough, and she was standing almost hip deep in the
river, just looking down. She could not find her bike! The water was so muddy
from the rains that none of us could see through it. So, all four of us started
stomping around in the water, hoping to step on the morotcycle. Eventually, we
found it several yards down river from where she fell off! 

We dragged the bike to shore, and we all took off our boots to empty out the
water. Then, we flipped her bike upside down, pulled the spark plug out, and
turned the back wheel to turn the engine over, By doing this we pumped out all
the water that had managed to get into the engine. A few minutes later we had
her bike running, then we all jumped back on our bikes, and headed off to
complete the race! We had to make up lost time, but that was part of the fun of
the race! 

I managed to complete that race, but my arms were so sore I could hardly move
them for a week. Try standing up on a bouncing motorcycle for over 350 miles
pulling on the clutch lever and working the brakes and see how you feel! That
is a glorious memory!

Hey, the sun is shining, and Texas is drying out!

Time to go to school. Today is the first day of the Summer Session!

