One-Eyed Black
##############

:Date: 2014-12-08
:tags: Cancer

We were sitting at the Airport in Kansas City last Sunday, after Thanksgiving
with our family there (and working on our second house!) I decided I needed
something to read before we got on the plane, so I headed to the newsstand in
the waiting area.

The clerk reached up her hand (she was pretty small) and said:

"Hi, my name is Shorty!"

I replied:

"Hi, my name is One-eyed Black!"

We both had a chuckle, and she asked if it was going to be OK. I had to tell
her that cancer make it go bye-bye, and she wished me well.

So, now I have a new nickname. Great! Always nice to have a few available when
needed!

Living with One-Eye
*******************

I am getting used to this, but there are a few things that do not seem to be
changing. The weirdest of them is that strange maze-like pattern I see when it
is dark, or when I close my eye. (Heck, it even feels weird to say eye where
the normal word would have been eyes!)

Visual Maze
===========

The maze does not seem as obvious, except when I first turn off the lights in a
room at night. I cannot move for a few seconds, until I find some source of
light, then I get my bearings and can move around. But very slowly. I am doing
things I am sure blind folks have to do. I use my hands and arms as a barrier
to make sure I do not walk into a column, or the wall. It is now fun, but I am
learning how to get around in the dark. This is only a problem when it is very
dark. I do not have any problems driving with the headlights on.

The doctors are still thinking that my brain is trying to make sense of the
signals coming from my old eye nerves, which are still there, just not attached
to anything. I have to draw a picture of what I see, maybe I can do that over
the break between semesters.

Depth Perception
================

Losing an eye zaps your depth perception. No doubt about that! And that is
probably the biggest thing I miss. Surprisingly it is only an issue when you
try to look at things closer than about 20 feet away. Driving normally is no
problem. 

But, driving in close quarters to things is an issue. I get very nervous about
exactly where the edges of my truck are when I pull into a parking space, for
example. Going to an ATM machine is a pain. They put those big poles in the
ground to keep you from bashing the machines, and where I go there are poles on
the other side as well. The result is that I go VERY slowly into the lane so I
do not hit either pole. I always clear them just fine, but it never looks like
that is going to happen.

Then there is the parking garage at school! I have to swing around corners with
cars on both sides, then do an "S" turn through several steel columns to get to
the exit door. I worry about scraping the sides of my truck off during that,
but I am doing fine for now. Phew!

Half World
==========

The last thing I am still dealing with is the feeling that the world is a
smaller place. Even though they say I have only lost 20% of my field of vision,
that 20% is important to the feel of the world. I still have a sense that there
is something over on that left side I simply cannot see. Originally it felt
like I was driving or walking in the mountains, and there was a huge mountain
on my left side, blocking my view. Now, it just feels like a dark void over
there. Oddly, I occasionally feel like I can see over there, but when I try to
look in that direction, I see the blackness of nothing instead.

Overall, all of these feelings, and issues will fade with time, but for now,
they are just part of my daily life.

Dinner
******

Last night, we had our friends, Howard and Cheryl, from up in north Austin down
for dinner. Howard is going through almost exactly the same things I am, with
the same doctors! We had a nice dinner (thanks to my Cheryl, and Howard's
Cheryl as well) and Howard and I compared notes and told more Dr. Scholl
stories.

I told Dr. Scholl that we did this, and he said the next time we had one of
these sessions to give him a call, and his daughter could join in on the fun.
He is a cool guy, and a highly respected doctor in this town. Both Howard and I
owe him a lot, for the work he has done to keep us alive. And, I have to thank
my new set of doctors at M. D. Anderson for doing the same.

Ticket Punching Time
********************

This is the last week of classes at school, so I really should be grading now,
not writing this blog. Grades are due in by Dec 16, and Cheryl and I are headed
off to Houston on Dec 17. Bright and early on Dec 18, I start the process of
getting yet another CAT scan to make sure the cancer is still gone. We are all
banking on that being true, but we will know for sure later that day when we
see Dr Lai, my head doctor at M. D. Anderson, and Dr. Keis, my Oncologist
there. If all goes as we pray it will, I will have another three months of not
thinking about cancer. Yeah, just in time for the holidays!

But this week it is another story. I always start to get, well, concerned about
the test and the answer that comes. I dread sitting in the doctor's office
waiting for the door-knob to move indicating that the answer is seconds away.
That wait is just awful! But then you have the answer, good or bad, and the
anxiety goes away, and you live with the results.

No matter what, I am ready for it, and will accept the answer. We are all
praying for a good result, since there is nothing going on, as far as I can
tell, that might indicate otherwise. But we still need all of your prayers as
well, so keep them coming. All of us know that helps.

Christmas
*********

In the meantime, I hope getting ready for Christmas is going well for all of
you. Cheryl and I will be heading up to Kansas City again for Christmas, then
back home for New Years. 

Wishing you all the best for the holidays!!

