Dancing at the USO
##################

:Date: 2017-09-02
:Tags: Stories, Veterans, Aviation
:Category: Life

We went dancing over Labor Day weekend. The event was a USO dance themed after
those held during WWII. We had a "Big Band", and the event was held in
Fredricksburg, Texas at the Hanger Hotel and Convention Center. Of course a
hotel with a name like that has to be at an airport, and this is the one we try
to always stay in when we spend a weekend in Fredricksburg. It is a cool town
with lots of shopping and food.

..  image::    images/HangerHotel17.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 500
    :alt: Hanger Hotel

Cheryl and I dressed up for the occasion. Cheryl had on a nice black dress, and
I put on my USAF uniform I have not had on in 24 years. Except for the face, it
looks pretty good!!

..  image::     images/CherylUSO.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Cheryl at the dance

..  image::     images/RoieUSO.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Roie at the dance

We had a nice time at the dance, even taking "Swing" lessong so we would be
able to join in. I managed not to trip Cheryl up the entire evening.

..  image:: images/USOdance.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 500
    :alt: USO dance floor
    
Next morning, we sat on the patio at the hotel and watched the pilots do their
thing. As an (ex) aviator, this is a lot of fun for me, and Cheryl seems to
enjoy it as well. A bunch of the folks at the dance actually flew in for the
weekend, and stayed at the hotel.

I saw a neat edition of the Bellanca Decathelon I used to tear holes in the sky
in (and fly upside down a lot):

..  image:: images/Decathelon17.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 500
    :alt: Decathelon

All in all, a nice Labor Day weekend getaway!

Checking Out
************

I can't help myself:

"What card do you want to use for the room?"
"Yours!"
"I have to stop asking that question that way!"
"Tee, Hee!"

Gas Issues
**********

We did suffer a bit of insanity in Texas just before this trip. It seems
everyone locally decided there was a gas shortage because of hurricane Harvey.
There was no shortage, but the trucks were having problems getting to the
supply points because of all the flooding. So everyone decided to fill up at
once, and all the stations for miles around Austin dried up in a hurry.

My corner station was out when I came home from school Thursday night, and we
needed to fill up on Friday for the trip to Fredricksburg. It did not look like
that was going to happen. I had about 200 miles left on my tank, which was
enough to do the trip, so I was not worried about it, but Cheryl's car was down
to 20 miles.

On Saturday morning, I checked my ``Gas Buddy`` app on my phone and it looked
like there was gas locally. I took Cheryl's car to the gas station, and the line
was only four cars deep, so I waited and managed to fill up. We ended up taking
her car on the trip.

When we got home on Sunday, the station was dry again. Monday morning, I passed
the station and saw a truck refueling the place. It was like vultures
surrounding a carcass! There were cars everywhere trying to get into that
station! Sheesh, what a mess. 

Now, five days later, things are pretty much back to normal. But the idiots are
still out there, waiting to panic at a moments notice! 

Be careful out there, it is a jungle!


