Another Decade
##############

:Date: 2016-09-25
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories

Today I enter my eighth decade. I have been around for seven decades now. Wow!
For most of my life, anyone who was 70 years old was OLD. Not it does not feel
that way.

One of my Mom's best quotes went like this (on her 71st Birthday):

    I don't know what happened. Last time I looked I was 18!

I now know how she felt.

It seems to take forever to hit 21, then it takes seconds to hit 70. I should
be grateful that I made it this far. My adventure with cancer made that less
than a certainty! 

Birthday Party
**************

Cheryl and I decided to celebrate my 70th birthday with another nice weekend at
the Hanger Hotel at the airport in Fredricksburg, Texas. We actually headed out
on the 24th, and did all of our celebrating a day early.

The drive to Fredricksburg takes a little over an hour from Austin, through the
Texas Hill Country. It is a nice drive. We did notice that between Johnson City
(Lyndon's home town) and Fredricksburg, almost every field has turned into a
vineyard of some sort. Those same fields used to be nothing but peach farms. I
guess the wine industry is taking over!

We got to Fredricksburg in time to check in at the hotel. IT was a bit cloudy,
and rain had blown through earlier. I spotted a Navion thta had been sitting in
a patch of grass on previous visits. It looked like they got it flying again:

..  image:: images/Navion.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600

After watching the action for a while, we headed into
town for a little sight-seeing, people watching, and (oh yeah!) SHOPPING!

Fredricksburg is a very popular shopping stop in Texas, full of small stores
selling all kinds of things. We were scouting a place to have dinner and
poking around looking for items we could use in our Kansas City house, which is
now ready to furnish! We found some super soft towels, which we will probably
stock up on on our next trip! I found a new leather change gizmo that I really
like and seem to lose frequently. It is round and folds up to capture the
change that otherwise wanders around in a pocket. I bought two, just in case.

We found a restaurant with an appealing menu, and ended up having dinner there
later in the day. A full sweep of the town and we were ready to call it a day.

O-Club
******

The Hanger Hotel is just that. It used to be a hanger, but they turned it into
a hotel, complete with what would have been an officer's Club during the war.
The entire place has a 1940's feel to it, and the club is no exception.

..  image:: images/OfficersClub.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600


There was a piano player plinking away in the club, and it was full of folks
talking airplanes. Cheryl and I had a glass of wine, and listened for an hour
or two. It was a nice evening. I sat there imagining what it must have felt
like to be a pilot during the war, sitting in a club like this knowing that in
the morning, it would be another flight into combat! 

I heard one guy talking to another. Both were pilots. The first one said he had
stopped in Fredricksburg on a trip from the west coast to Florida, and ended up
staying for four days. That  seems to be a common thing. This place, and the
diner next door is very popular with pilots, who fly in for coffee, or a quick
meal, then head out. The Hanger Hotel has two decks along the parking ramp, and
sitting there watching the traffic is a peaceful way to spend some time,
especially if you are into airplanes. Of course, that is me!

The club was still going strong when Cheryl and I headed up our room and called
it a night.

The next morning, we had breakfast at the Airport Diner, another 1940's vintage
place. When we got there, it was already full with area pilots. It is staffed
by "Diner Dolls" and "Hanger Guys"! 

The Johnson Home
****************

On the way back home, we decided to stop and visit the Johnson Family home
outside Johnson City. Both Lyndon and Lady-Bird are buried there, in a family
cemetery on their property. 

..  image:: images/JohnsonCemetary.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600

The ranch was Johnson's Western White House during his term as President, and
the tour focuses on life there during that time. You get to see a lot of the
home, and the grounds around it, where Lyndon grew up as a kid. It is neat
looking at the state of the art in technology, from the mid 1960s. Lyndon had
several place sin the home where three televisions were lined up. He would tune
in to all three major networks and watch what was happening. Today, CNN fills
that role, it seems. 

The home also has an airport. Lyndon would fly into Austin, and switch planes
to a smaller jet that could land on the ranch. The plane he used is on display
next to the house. I bought a book written by his pilot on Air Force One during
his term. 

..  image:: images/AirForceTwo.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600

Home Again
**********

After our tour of the Johnson Ranch was done, we headed back to Austin. We
managed a stop at the local WoodCrafters store to look for a shop vacuum for my
new workshop. That will be my birthday present from Cheryl this year! It will
come in handy when I finally get power in that place!

We got home in time to feed the cat. 

I am officially 70 now, even though we celebrated that with all my class mates
a couple of months ago in Virginia!  Here is hoping I get to do this again. We
will see (with a little help from the folks at M.D. Anderson!)

I have to thank Cheryl for making this a nice weekend together. We both
commented that if we retired, we could do this more often. Maybe we are  on to
something!
