More Shaking
############


:date: 2014-03-17
:author: Roie Black
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer
:Title: More Shaking

Today is called day 8 in the Chemo plan, and I get the big drug here in Austin
at Texas Oncology. So Cheryl and I set off to feed the vampires this morning
(only two vials nor since we are not part of any studies here in Austin) and we
got to visit with Dr. Fain, wo set me off on my adventure at M. D. Anderson. We
have not seen him since this whole thing started, so this was a nice visit.

Dr. Fain was very happy with the results so far. We went over the treatment
plan, and the greatly improved vision, a sure sign that the tumor has shrunk
from the chemo, and the various side effects I have been getting, and overall,
he is happy with what is going on. He made sure that the treatment I was
getting today was the correct reduced dose and we said our goodbyes, then
Cheryl and I set off to the infusion room.

Infusion time
*************

The infusion room here is much different than at M. D. Anderson, as we have
said before. This time the nurse looked familiar, like one I remember from about
5 years ago, which is possible, but she could not remember if she was here then
or not. In any case she managed to poke me with the rusty 10 penny nail with
minimal pain (I delayed the ouch at least 15 seconds for effect) and started
the Benedryl soon enough. I did not seem to fade off to la-la land as fast as
normal, but eventually did and they gave me the chemo drug while I was out

More shaking
************

Once again, when they started flushing after the chemo drug was done, I started
getting chills, and the chills deepened into shaking. The nurse was ready for
this with some drugs, but they did not stop the shakes, but may have lessened
their severity. I got to lie there watching all those other folks watch me
shake while I vibrated the bed, and Cheryl struggled to do anything she could
to help. Poor thing! I wished I could help, but I was too busy just shaking!

I did not seem to last that long, and eventually faded away, but it was
annoying!

On to class
***********

After it was all over, I went to school and taught a short class (mostly
sitting down, all the shaking took a bit out of me). Actually, for the rest of
the week, I taught mostly sitting down, I have been pretty tired.

I get two full weeks off now before we look things over and make sure the tumor
really has shrunk. We are all praying that it so. I will blog next when we have
news on that front!

Thanks for your well wishes and prayers.

