Hooman Beans
############

:date: 2014-09-20
:category: Life
:tags: Stories

Maybe I am just getting too old, but people are starting to get to me with the
silly things they do. 

Drivers
*******

While sitting in traffic the other day, in a line of cars just before the road
shrank from three lanes to two, I was watching how folks acted when they knew
they had to merge. (I saw more than a few staring at their phones while
driving, by the way!)

I was in the middle lane just before where the left-most lane was going to
disappear. There had been signs to that effect for over a mile. The middle lane
was full of cars who knew enough to get ready for the end of the lane. There
was probably room for two cars between where I was and the end of the left
lane. Still, several folks tried to push past me and nose their way in front of
me. When I failed to let one of them push between me and the car in front of
me, the driver acted like he had the right of way. I even got a one-fingered
salute. Too bad! Who appointed you Master of the Universe?

Then I started thinking about it (while seeing that driver glare at me from his
position behind me. He did ace the driver behind me with his terror tactics!)
Gee, was I in the wrong there? Did he really have the right of way? Why should
he have paid attention to the signs telling him their lane was ending and
got in line with the rest of us?

Some would say I was tempting fate. There are enough crazy people around, this
one might have crashed into me just to make a point! You never know these days!
Naw, he was driving a Lexus. 

I love it when a semi-driver solves this kind of problem by pushing the rig
over into the left lane blocking these bozos from zooming past him when there
really is no room for them.

Hmmm.

Let's move this entire scene to the movie theater. There are two lines waiting
for tickets, and someone decides to run up to the front and push into the line
in front of those waiting. What do you think will happen. I would really like
to be there to see! Is there really any difference in these two situations? If
so, I simply cannot see it. Maybe their car gives them special powers!

Some folks, when they get in their cars, think they are privileged, and should
be ahead of everyone else. I used to think there was a clause in the Mercedes
and BMW handbooks (maybe even in the Lexus book as well) giving them this
authority, but I may be wrong about that!

In the end, I suspect that common courtesy just gets lost in their haste to get
where they are going. Obviously, they are more important than the rest of us,
and we should know that! Too bad it makes them look like idiots!

Student Success
***************

Some years ago, I was a member of a committee working to find ways to help our
students succeed in college. This is something I care about, I want them to have
as much fun in their career ans I have had in mine!  I approach each class I
teach with the goal of helping them get ready for that first job interview. I
want them to stand out, and really impress that potential employer with their
skills, and their knowledge, not just of the core material they were supposed
to learn in school, but with how professionals in their field work on a daily
basis.

Sadly, some students seem to feel that they too are entitled to special
privileges. The ones I feel the worst about are the ones who will "borrow"
someone else's work and pass it off as their own. Unfortunately, I have had
that happen six times in my tenure as a Professor, and that really bothers me.

This semester, I started adding an "Academic Integrity" requirement to my lab
projects. Each student has to include a file containing a personalized
statement that they are submitting their own work for this lab assignment. I
cannot be sure they will honor that statement, but I can at least make them
formally lie to me. If I spot another attempt (and I am pretty good at doing
that), they have heard they will fail the course.

Of course, not all students act like this, most do honor the professional codes
of conduct. But those few who do not? What in the world leads them to think
this is the right way to act?

Politicians
***********

Then there was that news item this week of a city council passing an ordinance
that people are not allowed to stink in public. OMG, I would hate to be on the
Police Force in that town. Their officers now have to walk around sniffing all
the citizens. That will sure go over well!

I remain convinced that many in politics are not there to help people, they are
there to control them, and have them act according to rules they decide are
appropriate. Just watch your political system at work, and you decide! 

Sigh!

Maybe I just need more sleep.

Best Robotics
*************

Just to end on a good note, today I attended the kickoff meeting for the
Capitol Area BEST Robotics Competition, where teams of middle and high-school
students compete in an event with robots they have to build themselves.
Actually, the event provides most of the equipment they need to build the
robots, but they have to design, build and operate the gadgets themselves. The
robots are not autonomous, they are radio controlled, but they have to solve
some manufacturing challenge. This year, they assemble something that looks
like a wind turbine with long blades, and have to hoist the assembly up on the
end of a tower-like pole. The teams can cooperate with other teams to earn more
points. It is anything but easy!

Here is a robot from last year's event:

..  image:: images/BESTrobot.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: BEST Robot

I am a judge for the event to be held in 42 days. I did this last year and had
a ball. These kids are sharp, and they will be the ones who succeed in this
life. I sure wish they had events like this when I was a kid.

Oh well, I had the Smithsonian and could dream of becoming an engineer and
scientist. I think I made it happen!



