Six-Month Scan
##############

:Date: 2014-12-18
:Category: Life
:Tags: Cancer

Well, after Cheryl and I got done with work on Wednesday, we drove over to
Houston and settled in for the night at our favorite La Quinta, a short drive
from M. D. Anderson. We got up at the crack of dawn and headed over to start
the adventure that would include the CT scan that tells the doctors if the
cancer is still gone

Vampire Feeding
***************

As usual, the adventure started with people stabbing me in the arm with those
durned rusty 10 penny nails they use to draw blood for testing. We got to the
clinic about 45 minutes early, and they called me in almost immediately, so I
was in and out in a hurry. I must be getting used to all of this, and hardly
noticed when she stole my blood!

The CT Scan
***********

Next up was the CT scan itself. I was again early for this, and they called me
in very quickly. I went with a nurse to the prep area, where they start an IV
used to inject a contrast dye that helps show any cancer growths. For the
record, I HATE IVs, especially when the person putting it in does not believe
in Lidocane! IT stung a bit, but she did a good job getting it in. 

Then another nurse walked up to me, pointed to the wall in front of me and said
"Stand Here" in a commanding tone. So, I got up, walked straight up to the wall
and stood there! Just like she told me to. A lady in the prep room next to me
chuckled that I had been given a "Time-Out", since that is what I made it look
like! My nurse also laughed and said I had not been given a "time-out", they
just needed my chair for another patient, and I was off to yet another waiting
room, all wired up and ready to go!

After about a 20 minute wait, they called me back to the big donut! I asked if
this one was Dunkin, or Krispy-Cream. The techs were slightly amused, and laid
me down for the big ride. 

Things went pretty quickly. They inject the dye, and again I had that familiar
warm sensation from head to toe. (The tech told me I might think I was leaking
something down my leg during this, but that did not happen!) Once the Dye had
time to circulate through my system, they started the machine up, and back and
forth I went until they had the pictures they wanted. I was up and out of there
in short order, and back with Cheryl in the waiting area. 

We were all done with the mornings appointments, and had time for breakfast
before seeing Dr. Lai at noon.

The Answer!
***********

Merry Christmas! I was called into Dr. Lai's waiting room about a half hour
early! His assistant came right in to see how I was doing, but seemed unaware
that I had already had a CT scan. She asked how things were going, then told me
that the "boss" would be right in. 

Dr. Lai came in and said I looked pretty good. He looked at my mouth, up my
nose, checked out the work Dr. Yu had done, and told his assistant that I
should be scheduled for another visit in three months! I was still waiting for
him to tell me what the CT scan said, since it seemed like he was done with me,
and no one had said anything about that yet! So, I asked him if he had looked
at the scan yet, and he said he had. "To my eyes, there is nothing there!" 

Finally!

I get to have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

The official reading of the scan is done by a Radiologist, who reports in
several days later, but Dr. Lai's opinion is pretty good, so we are very
relieved by this good news! I have to admit that this whole scan-wait-answer
sequence is nerve wracking! I have done it far too many times, and it never
gets any more pleasant!

Dr Lai asked if I had had a chest X-Ray lately, and when I said no, he told his
assistant to schedule one for my next visit, and he was gone! 

Cheryl and I were very happy (and relieved) with this good news!

Dr. Keis
********

Our last appointment of the day was with my Oncologist, Dr. Keis. He was right
on time at 2pm, and he walked into the room and, as Cheryl told folks later,
"he almost hugged me". Dr. Keis had not seem me since the surgery, and it was
his Chemo work that made the surgery a success by shrinking the tumor to the
point where they got it all! He looked at my CT scan on the computer, which he
has done before, and was a bit surprised at all the bone loss I have had as a
result of all of this. Overall, he said I looked great, in fact I looked far
better than many of his patients who had been through what I have! He looked at
my eye area, and told me he did not expect the artificial eye to make a big
difference in how I looked. He told me not to expect too much from that, and
suggested that a smaller eye patch might be sufficient. "But it is your
decision", he said. 

Bottom line is that he is extremely happy with how I have done through all of
this, and both Cheryl and I really like this doctor! He is always friendly,
tells you what he thinks, and makes sure you are on top of what is going on, or
will be going on. It was an especially nice way to end this day!

Back to Austin
**************

With a great sigh of relief, we headed back to Austin just in time to hit rush
hour in Houston. Fortunately, we know back roads that avoid the Interstate
until the last possible time, so we managed to get out of town without much
delay. We stopped for dinner and gassed up the truck, and were home by about
9pm

Off to Kansas City
******************

Both Cheryl and I had things to do at work so we could unhook from all of this,
and head off on our Christmas trip. We plan on driving up to KC early Saturday
Morning, and will be visiting with family, and working on our house for the
week.

Thanks to all!
**************

Yet again, I have to thank all of you who have been sending both Cheryl and me
your prayers, and well wishes. We are both sure that these all helped! May you
all enjoy the blessings of the season, and have a great time visiting with
family and friends during the next few weeks.

Our next stop after our Christmas trip is back to M. D. Anderson for work on
the artificial eye. We plan on at least starting the process and see what the
doctors think about it all.

Merry Christmas to you all!


