Post Op Notes
#############

:date: 2013-12-19
:tags: Cancer

No pictures yet, but the surgery went extremely well, and the results are very
encouraging!

Dark and Early
**************

I had to take a shower last night with anti-bacterial soap to clean off
Clarence, which we did around 10pm. Then this morning, I was to do it all over
again, so at 4:30am I was back in the shower for round two. Then we headed off
to the Hospital. This one was new, at least we have never been there before.
They have a private parking garage for out-patient stuff, so parking was a snap
and we were checking in in a matter of minutes.

The admin guy dropped a pile of paper on the desk, which surprised my wife. I
said "Those are just for the aspirin, wait until he gets to the surgical forms".
Th admin guy thought that was a hoot! Remember, I do my best to make their day
more fun that it will be otherwise.

Anyway, after signing away everything I own, or will ever own, we were cleared
to wander to the rooms where we got ready to the big event.

Hospital rivalry
****************

The nurse who greeted us took away more of my vitals (I sure hope I have a good
supply of those, they keep stealing them!), then she went off for those evil
needles and pokey things.

When she came back in I did my normal overview of how I feel about needles, and
she was sure she was going to do this just fine. In the conversation, I told
her the story of my first IV and she commented that that one must have been at
Seaton Hospital (where it was). As we talked about that, it was clear that
there is a bit of a rivalry between the two hospitals. 

What was more interesting was finding out that her husband is going through
cancer, surgery, chemo, and radiation, and all of her doctors are the same ones
on my team. Unfortunately, she is not all that happy with "Top Doc". Not
because of his professional skills, they just do not seem to get along. Top Doc
and I share the same sense of humor, so we get along just fine. Still, it was
fun talking over all of this with my new nurse.

She gave me a numbing shot, then only took two tries to get the IV in. It was
not fun, but not that bad. (Or else I really am getting used to needles by
now). 

Dr. Snyder, my Plastic Surgeon, came in and we talked about the procedure. I
made sure he had talked to Dr. Scholl ("Top Doc") and they were all clear on
any issues. Once he was sure I/we were ready, he headed off to get ready.

Anesthetics
***********

Second to the doctor, the most important person is the one who will help you
sleep through all the fun. This Anesthesiologist was very good. She talked us
through the need to put in an airway, something that was not possible for my
procedure back in April. She checked out how far I could open my mouth and made
sure she knew how they were going to do things. Then she gave me a dose of some
kind of cocktail in my new IV and we went wheeling down the hall. I remember
seeing a slew of other beds heading down the same hallway and thinking this
must be the hospital's equivalent of rush hour. We got to the jam in front of
the last door, and, poof, I was out for the duration!

The part I slept through
************************

Apparently, the surgery went extremely well. Cheryl stayed in the room where we
got ready. After a short stay in the recovery area, they would bring me back in
there. She brought her laptop so she could get some work done, and got
everything set up. She said she looked up and saw Dr. Snyder standing there.
"OMG, why are you here?" It turns out the surgery went extremely well, Every
step was smooth as silk, from putting in the IV, to firing up the Dyson vacuum
cleaner to do the Liposuction, to sewing up everything, so he was done in about
half the time he expected it might take. Wow! That is nice. The nurse checked
back in with Cheryl, as did the Anesthesiologist, and others involved. Customer
Service was outstanding.

Me? I was still asleep!

Recovery room
*************

As before, after the lights went out, the next thing I remember is opening my
eyes and not having a clue where I was. Then I thought I was back at Seaton,
since the room looked exactly like the one I was taken into back there. They let
me sit there while I started really waking up. I think they asked me who I was,
and if I knew where I was. I must have muddled through all that, because it was
not overly long before I was wheeled through a set of double doors, took a hard
left, and was back in the room with Cheryl!

After a bit, I got out of bed to take a look at "my face" v3. Clarence is gone,
but his skinny brother is there, only a lot smaller. Dr. Snyder sucked out most
of the excess bulk, and thinned out the skin patch so it is about half the
previous width. He also moved some things around that will help prevent the
morning swelling around my left eye. "It Looks Great!", and "You are doing
fine!" were toddes around a bunch!  (Where have I heard all that before?)
Unfortunately, I forgot my picture of Robert, so I look pretty much like I did
before all this. Maybe another time!

Anyway, they got me back in my own clothes (no more BHO gowns - that means
"Butt hanging out" for those not used to hospital garb!). They wheeled me out
to the garage and sent us on our way home! Total time from door to door, about
five hours.

Home again
**********

The surgery took a toll on my face, so I am home now resting up. They mashed my
lower lip with the airway, and I am dealing with a bit of bleeding around where
they sewed me up. The pain level is not that bad. It is worse than before, but
I have some new, improved, drugs are taking care of that.

I am not allowed to move around much while all of this heals. I will see Dr.
Synder on December 30 to check on how things are healing. Then another couple
of weeks later, it will be back to school. I should be fine by them.

More family support
*******************

I have to tell you, when Cheryl puts on her "care giver" duds, she is a marvel.
There is no way I would want to go through any of this without her there by my
side. If you ever go through anything like this, I hope you have someone as
caring as Cheryl is through all of this.  

All of that comes at a price. It is hard on those who have to stand by and wait
through all of the doctor's visits, trips to clinics and pharmacies, and the
time in the hospital. I was not happy that she was in that room alone, but
after we got home, cousin Bill from Wyoming was at the airport to help us out
yet again. (He did say that he is getting tired of visiting and seeing me in
this messed up state. I told him we would be there if he needed us. "In
Wyoming? I do not think so!" "Well, just make it happen in July, and no
problem")

I owe a lot to all my family and friends, and to God, who got me through all of
this. Cancer does suck! But you can choose to live through it, or give up and
miss out on the life you still have. We cancer survivors all live in the
knowledge that it might come back and get us again, but that is true for all of
us, we survivors just know how true that really is! I choose to live! I hope
you do as well.

Thanks to all!


