Memorial Day - 2022
###################

:Date: 2021-01-07
:Category: Life
:Tags: Veterans, Stories

The alarm went off at 4am.

It was October 15, 1944. Andy Tarapchak, 24 years old and already a Captain in
the Army Air Corps, hit the thing to shut it up. His first impulse was to throw
it out of the tent. He was still tired from yesterday's mission. He rolled out
of his cot, ran the razor over his face, checked for blood, then jumped into
his flight suit and headed out of the tent for the morning briefing. As he
walked along the dirt path, his co-pilot, 2nd Lieutenant Ed Ochen, joined him.
Andy looked past the briefing tent to the line of B-26 bombers being prepped
for today's mission. The mechanics were pulling the propellers to pump any
residual oil or fuel out of the cylinders, and loading the fuel,  5000 pounds
of bombs, and the ammo for the 50 caliber nose guns and the 30 caliber tail
guns. Those guns were manned by the Navigator/ Bombardier SSgt Joe Tverdak, and
the Tail Gunner Corporal Jake Yungling. Radioman SSgt Frank Micculli sat behind
the pilot's station, and  Flight Engineer, George Cardinale who maned waist
guns and tended to the engines and other systems completed the crew. 

After the briefing, which told them they were headed for a mission in eastern
France, Andy, Ed and the rest of the crew walked over to their plane. Andy
never added any nose art to his plane, but the crew had named the ship "Sky
Queen". The crew climbed into their positions and ran through the pre-flight
checks. After a bit of finessing the throttles, Andy got the left Pratt &
Whitney Wasp radial engine running, then let Ed start the right. Smoke bellowed
out of both engines but they settled down into a mild roar, shaking the entire
plane. Andy concentrated on the take-off procedures. The B-26 had small wings
and had a reputation for being a "Widow Maker" since it was hard to fly and
took care to get into the air with a full load. 

From Andy's notes after the war:

"We both stood on the brakes and I shoved the throttles full forward until the
plane shuddered. We then released the brakes and started our takeoff. At the
far end of the runway we still did not have enough flying speed so all we could
do was lift up the wheels. We staggered off of the runway and fortunately we
were on the edge of the coastline on the English Channel. Once we crossed the
cliff, we eased the plane's nose forward and had about 200 feet above the
waterline to pick up airspeed and begin to fly."

The flight to the target was relatively uneventful until they got close to the
target itself. Then flak began to explode in the air around the formation of
bombers. Sky Queen's left engine took a hit, but it managed to keep running.
The nose gunner switched roles and became the bombardier who guided the ship to
the target while Andy and Ed focused on avoiding flak and watching tor German
fighters. After dropping their bomb load, Andy turned back toward home. The
left engine was now running very rough and it became obvious they were not
going to make it home. They were over Belgium when Andy realized he had to find
a place to land. He spotted a beet field and lowered the landing gear. Both
Andy and Ed fought for control and kept the plane on track for the crash
landing. They hit the ground hard and the nose gear collapsed as they slid to a
stop. Every one on board was alive, but they were far from safe. The air around
them was full of German Me-109 fighters and British Spitfires engaging in
fierce dog fights. They knew German patrols probably would be looking for them.

..	image::	images/Crash_Landing.jpg
	:align: center
	:width: 300


As the crew climbed out of the plane, they were spotted by members of the
French Underground. Thankful they were not in the hands of the Germans, the
crew followed the underground fighters who took charge of getting them back to
England. As they walked along, Andy spotted a German ME-109 as it was hit by
fire from a Spitfire and started to burn in the air. He saw the pilot bail out
of the plane. He had no parachute! Andy saw the pilot fall into the woods near
where they were walking, so several men went over to see if they could find
him. They did, but the sight was going to be hard to forget.

Andy and his crew made it safely to the coast, then rode in a small boat back
to England. After a few days of debriefing, the crew picked up a new bomber and
got ready for more missions.

The alarm went off at 4am...

All told, andy flew 186 hours of combat missions in two years. I have his
records from those flights but the targets are not mentioned. Andy was awarded
10 Air Medals for his heroic flying in harm's way.

Andy left the service and never flew in an airplane again. He and his wife,
Evelyn settled in Washington D.C. and lived next door to my parents when I was
born. I grew up listening to Andy's stories. I heard versions of this story
several times, each telling added a few more details. Defending freedom was
very important to Andy and that great generation of men and women who went off
to war. I knew at an early age I was going to follow his lead. I hope Andy was
proud that he helped push me to my 20-year career in the United States Air
Force.

Memorial Day is the day we honor those who served, fought, and died in the
defense of freedom in this world. Andy did not die in service to his country,
but he served his country until the day he died. I suspect many veterans do
just that as well. This is not a day of celebration, or a day just marking the
start of summer. It is a day to respect service to this country, especially
service in combat that ended in the ultimate sacrifice.

Andy lived to be 96. On my last visit to see him in a retirement home near
Annapolis, where he and a handful of other WWII veterans spent their time
telling their own war stories, Andy told me he was 103!


..	image::	images/AndyAndMe.png
	:align: center
	:width: 300

God bless all those brave soldiers! Rest in Peace, Andy!
