Digging to China
################

:Date: 2017-07-02
:Category: Life
:Tags: Ham Radio, Stories

All male kids try to dig to China. It should not be too hard, just take a
shovel and start digging, sooner or later, you will end up in China. Or so the
story goes.

..  warning::

    Actually digging straight down will not actually get you to China at all,
    which is a big disappointment. From Austin, texas, you actually end up in
    the Indian Ocean, West of Australia! You should check this website out
    before commencing your "Big Dig", just to be safe:

    https://www.antipodesmap.com/ 
    
    Shoot, so much for that idea!


About a month ago, I started doing that dig again. Only this time it was to put
up an antenna on the back of my back yard workshop/ham shack. The antenna I am
putting up is 28 feet tall, and needs to be at least 10 feet above the ground
at the bottom of that thing. I did my research, and found out you use water
pipe to hold it up, then bolt the antenna on top of that pipe. 

Getting something this tall up on top of a tall water pipe sound like a job for
a crane operator, but I found a mounting system that lets you bury a five foot
section of pipe about three feet into the ground. Then you bolt on this "tilt-over"
fixture onto the two foot section that remains above ground. Another tall pip
section bolts to a plate on the fixture, and you can tip the top section down
to work on the antenna, or lower it if the winds get too strong.

Or so THAT story goes.

Lowes
*****

A trip to Lowes found 10 foot water pipe, two inches in diameter. I had the
store slice one section in half, and bought another full section and a coupler.
That should work. A five foot section tp plant in the ground, and a 15 foot
section to lift up for the antenna to mount to. 

Boy, these things are heavy.

Digging Tools
*************

All we had for digging were some gardening tools. Hardly up to the job. So, I
bought a skinny shovel that looked like it should do to dig a small hole. (I
really did not think this through completely. If I need a three foot deep hole, about a
foot across, that shovel is not really going to work.)

But, I started the "Big Dig" anyway. 

..  image:: images/BigDig1.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig

And got all of six inched down.

Rocks
*****

It turns out that six inches below the surface of the Earth (at least in
Texas), the ground becomes rock. Not solid,
Michelangelo-can-carve-a-statue-out-of-it rock. More like the crumbly 2 to 9
inch across rock. There is hardly any dirt in that stuff at all.

I used a tin can to scoop out the material as I tried to push past that rock
layer, and got no where.

This is not going to be fun!

Back to Lowes
*************

I was hoping that this rock layer would be shallow, so I bought a steel spike
and a five-pound sledge hammer, thinking I could convince the rock to get out
of the way for my small hole. The spike has a pointed end, and the sledge did
convince a fee chunks of rock to give up the fight. 

..  image:: images/BigDig3.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - More tools

I got two more inches down! 

Sweating like gang-busters, I sat back and thought some more about this
adventure.

Post Hole Digger
****************

It was obvious that I was going to need something other than my hands to get
this stuff out of the hole. The shovel was no good for that. So, I talked to a
friend who had one of those real old fashooned post-hole diggers, and borrowed
that. 

..  note::

    When I had my fence replaces years ago, I discovered what Texans call a
    post-hole digger. We Northerners call them "jack hammers"! Now I know why!

The only problem with this tool is that is does nothing when the hole is full
of rocks. You have to break up the rocks and use the digger to pull them out
of the hole.

Two more inches!

Electric Hammer
***************

My post-hole digger driend is a retired contractor. He had a bunch of
interesting tools left over from his old profession, and he brought out an
electric hammer. This is used in demolition, and works like a baby jack hammer.
The only problem with thsi thing was the handles. They were too big to get very
far doen into the hole. Still, we worked with that thing all afternoon one day,
and manages to pound our way about noine more inches down.

Sheesh, this digging to China stuff will take FOREVER!

More Lowes Tools
****************

Back at Lowes, I found a six foot steel spike with a chisel blade on one end,
and a wide cap on the other. This thing is designed to break up concrete, using
a sledge hammer. At six feet, surely it will be long enough to get to my
required three foot depth!

..  image:: images/BigDig5.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - Demolition Tools

The rocks had other ideas, though. Even pounding on that spike was not enough
to get all of the rocks to break up. But I did manage to get to my required 36
inches deep. The hole was about a foot across at the top, but more like 9
inches across at the bottom. I thought I saw a cooley hat in the bottom of that
hole, but that might have been my imagination, or a sweat filled eye playing
tricks on me.

..  image:: images/BigDig6.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - More Demolition Tools

When I quit digging, the hole as deep enough I could not reach the bottom of
the thing. That post-hole digger was essential for cleaning out the last bit of
rock from the hole.

..  image:: images/BigDig8.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - Looking for Cooleys

..  note::

    Note to self: Next time you get the dumb idea to dig a hole in Texas, hire
    those fence guys. This four week adventure would have taken 30 minutes with
    the right Texas Post-Hole digger!

Pea Gravel
**********

With the hole at the required depth, and the rocks cleared out from the area,
it was time to plant the ground pipe. I had two choices here. One was to mix up
a bunch of concrete and fill the hole with that. This would work, but if you
even needed to get that thing out of the ground, it would be a lot of work.
Another idea was to use pea-gravel, which is small rocks, hardly more than a
quarter inch across. 

This approach seems silly, but it works. The gravel rock fills the hole very
nicely, and as the pipe giggles around in the wind, it actually gets stronger
as the gravel settles in. It took five bags of the stuff to fill in my three
foot hole!

..  image:: images/BigDig10.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - Three Bags In

Here is the final lower pipe installation:

..  image:: images/BigDig16.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - Five bags in

Mount Hardware
**************

With the ground pipe in place, it was time to assemble the "tip-over" hardware.
This kit came with all the nuts and bolts needed to do the job, and went
together pretty quickly.

..  image:: images/BigDig15.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Big Dig - Tilt Over Mount


I bolted the assembly to the ground pipe, then attached the two part upper pipe
section to it in about an hour. The upper pipe was a bit of a hassle, since I
had to assemble it with a coupler in the middle. I bought two end caps to cover
the top of the ground pipe, and the top of the upper pipe, and hoisted the
entire thing up!

..  image:: images/MastUp.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Mast Up

It clears the top of my shack by about three feet. That is probably enough for
the antenna, but I need to assemble that thing, all 10,000 parts of it, to be
sure. 

..  image:: images/MastDown.JPG
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Mast Down

Project Done
************

The mounting pipe project is done!. It took far longer than expected, but I
learned a thing or two in the process. My next project is the antenna itself,
which will take a bit of time, because it is pretty complex. For now, I get to
admire a fifteen foot tall water pipe, standing behind my shack!

..  image:: images/CushcraftR9.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Cushcraft R9 Antenna

Silly, but building antennas is part of being an Amateur Radio Operator.
Everything is waiting for that antenna, then I can talk to the world from my
back yard.

My students are going "Who Cares? You can email them just as easily, and you do
not ned all that radio stuff."

Yeah, but try that after a hurricane wipes out your Internet! Ham Radio has
been doing public service in emergencies like that for over a century!

There is a lot of interesting technology out there to learn about. Radio has
fascinated me forever, it seems. I am now qualified to explore the radio waves
over quite a range of frequencies, and there is a lot of interesting things
going on it that spectrum of electromagnetic energy!


