#########################
Another Day of Treatments
#########################

:date: 2008-04-22
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer

Off to chemo and once we figured out that my immune system is strong enough
for a treatment today. Another day (well, 3.5 hours) hooked up to a machine
that pumps all kinds of goop into you (Yeah PORT! No old fashioned IV setups
for me!) Unfortunately, today I was not in charge of the TV so I had to endure
`The Price is Right`, `The Young and the Restless`, and a few other shows that
prove beyond a shadow of doubt that there is no intelligent life to be found
on any channel below about 30. My mom stayed home for two years while she
fought through Rheumatic Fever, and watched all the soaps, then she started
back up again when she retired. "Nothing has changed - the characters are all
older, but they have not learned anything!" or so she said! I have no
intention of verifying this claim!

We did the next to last radiation in the afternoon and took a few pictures.

..  image:: images/tIMG_0612.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation1

This is my sister, Karen, and I driving up to the center.

..  image:: images/tIMG_0613.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation2

After signing in, which alerts the folks in the clinic that they have a new
patient to work over - er - on, you get to sit a bit and read up on the same
magazines that seem to live in all clinics all over town!

Oh yeah! I wore the hat today. The hair did not go away, at least not due to
treatments, just heredity!

..  image:: images/tIMG_0617.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation3

This is the left side of the treatment accelerator. It looks just like part of
my garage. If I had known that, I could have saved some money! Maybe my garage
is growing one of these beasts?

..  image:: images/tIMG_0618.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation4

This is the table (and hat) where I get to lay me down for a brief spell.

..  image:: images/tIMG_0621.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation5

And the right side of the machines innards.

..  image:: images/tIMG_0623.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation6

I jazzed up the mask a bit. Where is Jim Carey when you need him?

..  image:: images/tIMG_0630.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation7

Here I have been locked down to the table. They need to make sure I end up in
exactly the same place each time, so...

..  image:: images/tIMG_0632.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation8

The use a laser to line things up, then take two X-Ray pictures for fine
alignment (the table is motorized and moves - actually bumps - you into place.

..  image:: images/tIMG_0633.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Radiation9

Once the seal up the room, the technicians drive the beast from a console that
lets them see what is going on and actually fire the beam off from the console
you see here. Lots of neat stuff going on here! Ain't technology wonderful?

I have this all figured out! There are (were) 14 microscopic cancer cells
doing their best to hang on through all of this. Today, the chemo woke then up
and they started singing. Unfortunately, the big bad machine heard them and
blew them up! One more time and we shall hear one of my favorite songs "The
Sounds of Silence". The only bad thing is that we have to wait for a few
months to make sure the silence was real - Phooey!


