##############
Starting Chemo
##############

:date: 2008-03-11
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer

Hello again from various parts of Austin!

Well, today was a busy day. This morning at 8:30, Cheryl and I popped into the
Oncology office where I got my first chemo infusion. Yeah - another non
event! But this one took 3.5 hours! Before we left home, I rubbed an
anesthetic cream they prescribed over the "port" thingy they put in my
shoulder for this purpose. The nurse stuck an IV needle into the port which
was completely numb. Bingo - no pain (I could get over my dislike of needles
if this keeps up!) Then they talked us through the million or so side effects
you "might" get from this (we don't listen to most of them - in rare cases
some of them are nasty!) Then they gave me a bunch of fluids and potassium and
magnesium that you lose from the treatment(those are metal aren't they?
Weird!) They also gave me a nausea medicine since that is a common side effect
of this stuff. A couple of hours of that then they gave me the real "chicken
soup" - er - chemo stuff. It came in a plain brown IV bag because it was shy -
or light sensitive - or something. That took about an hour to pump in. Then
they gave me a few more fluids, pulled the IV out and sent me home. 

I got some reading done, watched a movie on my iPod (so that is what those
things are for - doctors offices!) I also had a nice chat with a couple next
to me during this. The lady who was also going through the treatments used to
program supercomputers like I ran for the Air Force way back when. Her husband
did the same thing. Talk about a small world, three geeks in a row!

Chery and I went home after a short lunch, then at 3:00 it was back up to the
radiation center for another toasting session. These are still boring - but
that is fine! It might get a bit more intense as we get further along. I did
get to talk to the radiation doctor after the treatment for a little primer on
how all this works. Basically, that noodle strainer they use locks you into
position for the treatment. They then take two quick x-rays to spot the target
point for the treatment. Once they have that pinned down, the table I am
strapped down to moves slightly to align the machine, then they turn it loose
to run the program the doctor designed for the treatment. The target point is
located to with a millimeter, but the beam is about 6 centimeters wide so it
zaps a pretty big area. The machine sends the rays through your body from a
dozen different angles, and the beam does its thing from each angle. The idea
is to dose the target multiple times, while dosing the tissue around it as few
times as possible. The target cancer cells get wiped out and any other damage
heals normally. The chemo I am getting is supposed to wake up any remaining
cancer cells so they really get blasted by the radiation. Sounds complicated,
but it has a good record of working. I have to wait several weeks after all
this ends to do the test and make sure every one of those bad cells went
bye-bye. ("T minus about 11 weeks and counting" HA!)

We are both still getting a ton of emails and well wishes from many folks, and
we sure need that support. All of this stuff takes a toll on both of us, and
all of you help keep the rough spots much smoother. We are forever grateful
for all of you in our lives.

Roie


