More Dental Work
################

:Date: 2017-08-21
:Category: Cancer
:Tags: Surgery, Dental

We reached a milestone this week! We visited M>D> Anderson, and came back with
more parts than we went over with! Progress!

Day 1 - Prep
************

We drove over in the morning, since the first appointment was not until 10am.
The drive was nice, especially since the car knows the way and only needs minor
guidance (I wish!). Cheryl drove, since I prefer not to drive in the dark, and
it was not especially light when we left home. We stopped for Kolachies in La
Grange, as usual, and everything went smoothly until we hit rush hour traffic
in Houston. The last five miles were stop and go.

Anesthesiology
==============

We got to the hospital around 9:30 and went right to our meeting with the
anesthesiologist. I had my vitals stolen, and visited with a nurse who went
over my history. Nothing special was noted, so this meeting was quick. 

Dental
======

The next stop was up to the dental area to see Dr. Hofsteade, who was going to
do the dental plate work. The doctor came in right on time, and looked my mouth
over. She told us that the flap placed over the new jawbone was pretty thick,
which made her job tougher, but she was confident she could get in there and
get the job done.

I had a 3D X-Ray taken of my head, and she brought the image up to look at the
area where the work would be done. My first thought was that the Terminator had
reached into my face and stonel all the bone from above my left eye, all the
way down my face. There is nothing left in there! Yikes. WHen she spun the
image around to look at the right side, it looked normal, but the left side.
What a train wreck! 

I could see the bicycle-chain titanium strap that is now my lower jaw, but the
added bne was not showing up much. There were three short posts sitting close
together in the area where the new teeth will end up. Dr. Hofsteade will place
extensions on those posts that rise up to the top of the skin flap, then place
a plate over that to cover the area so it can heal and not re-close over the
posts. After a couple of weeks, she will add the plate that will hold the
teeth, and that plate will snap onto the posts. A bit of wire to provide
support will extend over my lower front teeth (the few remaining real teeth),
and I will be done. Sounded simple enough, so we left with a good understanding
of the game plan.

Eclipse
=======

Today was the total eclipse of the sun. We managed to see a bit of this oon TV
in the waiting rooms, and saw a few folks using the special sun-glasses on the
patio outside of the cafeteria where we had lunch. ALl in all, we missed the
action, but that is the price you pay to get care here.

Plastic Surgery
===============

The final stop of the day was to Dr. Yu, my plastic Surgeon. He has to do the
cutting on the flap to expose the posts, and while he is at it, he plans on
doing another round of "fat grafting" to fill in more of the side of my face.
We did not see Dr. Yu, but spent a few minutes going over everything with his
PA< Brooke. (She is a native Nebraskan, so Cheryl likes visiting with er!).

Brooke wen over everything that could go wrong. Boy, if you believed any of
that would happen, you would run screaming from the place!. In the end, we were
fine with the plan, so we left for the day!

Rotary House
============

Rather than stay at our local La Quinta, we spent a bit more to get a room at
the Rotary House, a hotel attached to the hospital. That way, the trip from the
room to the surgical floor is just a walk away, and it is easy to move back and
forth. 

We checked in a bit before the right time, but they gave us our room anyway. We
went to the floor, and used the key to get into the room. SO far, so good. I
puled the suitcase in, and Cheryl decided to check out the bathroom. She pushed
open the door, and there was some poor man in there using the place. About
then, I noticed that the TV was on, and there was a pair of shoes by the bed.

Seems this guy did not check out, and the cleaning crew declared the room ready
when it reall was not. We beat a hasty retreat from the room, and went back to
the desk to discuss this situation. I promised not to use any colorfull
language when we got there. They gave us a new room as far from that one as
possible, at the top of the building. Everything was fine after that!

Once we were settled into the room, we headed out for the required visit to
Microcenter. I tried to get Cheryl to stay in the car while I took a quick look
at the inventory, but she decided to come along. When we got to the aisle where
they have all the parts I use in my classes, she got fascinated by a new stash
of "cute" parts hanging on the wall. $125 later, I escaped the place. I did not
plan on spending much at all, but the did not last! Oh well, I can use the
parts in class, and the students should enjoy playing with these new toys.

Finally, we headed up to Humble, TX to visit with Cheryl's high-school friends,
Sharron and Dan (and Little Bits). We had a nice dinner at a Mexican Restaurant
nearby, and went back to the hotel for an early bed time.

Day 2 - Surgery
***************

THe surgery was scheduled for 7:30am, and we had to report at 5:30am to get
ready. MDA is oddly quite at that time of day, we hardly saw anyone except for
a guard. When we got to the surgery floor, there was one other couple there, so
we checked in and they took us right back to a prep room.

A nurse appeared, stole all my clothes (except for the BHO - butt hanging out -
gown, and I ended up laying on the bed for a half hour.

Then a nice older man walked in. He looked Japanese, but I an not sure. He said
he was the anesthesiologist, and we talked about the procedure he would be
doing. I asked him how long he had been at this. "100 years" was his answer.
"Fine, you should know how to do this then!" was my reply.

Then we talked about my job, and whn he found out I was a college professor, he
launched into a story of going to school in Paris. Since we visited Paris, we
ended up talking about travel in Europe, and our planned trip to Italy next
summer. 

Finally, another nurse came in to set up the IV. This is not my favorite part
of any procedure, but she used a Lidocane injection to numb the area, and the
IV went in with no feeling at all. She should get a bonus for that! 

Around 7am, another nurse came in with a bag of "happy juice" which he said was
to relax me. He pushed that into the IV, and I will admit I got relaxed. Before
I knew it, they were wheeling the bed out of the room and down the hall. I got
more relaxed as we went on, and I barely remember going through a few doors.
Cheryl was walking by my side, and she tells me she told me to "break a leg" as
they took me into the surgery room. I do not remember that, and I do not
remember saying "they already did that!" back to her.

Night - Night Time

Recovery
========

Next thing I know, I am in a big room looking out at a window and see Dr.
Hofsteade talking to a nurse. Then the doctor left, and the nurse came up to me
and said "I am going to count to three, then pull out the air tube in your
nose".

Great, I had not noticed that I had one.

"Three!", and she grabbed the hose and pulled. A foot of plastic came out
before I knew what was happening. I would have grabbed her if she had been
closer. But she was giggling far enough away to escape my grasp.

Turns out her name is Brittany, and she did a great job of getting me back into
focus as the effects of everything wore off. They brought Cheryl into the room,
then I managed to get out of bed, and use the bathroom. All too soon, they
called for a wheel-chair to take me to my room. I thought I might end up
staying in a recovery room overnight, but the man with the chair, Raymond,
showed up and got me seated, then pushed me all the way back to our room in the
Rotary House. Wow, fast and furious!

Raymond had been a patient here, and decided to stay and help others. He was a
pretty cool man, with an exceptional attitude. Listening to him was a very nice
experience for both Cheryl and I.

In the room, I got settled into t:1
he bad, and I dozed some. Cheryl ordered room
service for her meal. I managed to drink an Ensure, since I had to stay on a
liquid diet for a few days, then soft food for a few more.

Finally, we crashed for the night. The day was not that bad, and everything
went exactly as planned. I managed a look at the new filling in my face, and it
looks pretty good. The depression on the side near my ear is pretty much gone.
One odd thing, with the new "stuffing", my left lip does not sag as much, and I
could notice that drooling was not happening as badly as before. I am hoping
this is a good sign that we may get that problem under control!

Day 3 - Final Checks
********************

I managed to sleep a bit, but it was hard since I could not really lay on
either side. We had a visit with Dr. Hofsteade scheduled for 8:30, so we got
up, I had another Ensure while Cheryl had nothing. Around 8am, we headed out of
the room and Cheryl grabbed some coffee at the Starbucks in the eating area of
the hotel. Then we walked across a walkway to the hospital, and up an elevator
to the Dental area. 

This time the place was packed. Even so, I was called in just about on time,
and we waited for Dr Hofsteade to come in. 

When she arrived, she looked at the surgical area, and declared that everything
looked fine. I had a new plate I could feel, but little to no pain, except in
my leg where Dr. Yu had "harvested" fat for my face.

Dr. Hofsteade then started getting ready to make molds of my tqeeth, so she can
build the next dental plate, apparently the one that will be the final one.
What is in my mouth now, goes away on my next visit.

After sticking a gallon of silly-putty in a metal mouth tray to make the
impressions, she cleaned me up and said we would get together in a couple of
weeks. Wow, I did not expect the next step to happen that fast.

Finally, we were done, and Cheryl and I checked out of the Rotary House, and
headed back to Austin. W did stop at an antique car place near La Grange, but we
were home in a bit over three hours. All in all, a very successful trip.

Follow Up
*********

Back home, I managed to get through the day with no issues. I did not have any
pain, so the pain medicine they prescribed is sitting unused, which is fine.
Cheryl got out a flashlight to look at my mouth, something she did not do at
the hospital, and almost freaked out!

She thought I was bleeding, and saw what looked like an infection on the inside
of my mouth. We decided to call my local dentist and get her to take a look.

So, I fought Austin Traffic for an hour and managed to get to my dentists
office. She saw me right away, and looked things over. It turns out the did
stretch my lips a bit too far during surgery, so there was some blood along
my mouth, but I was not bleeding from the surgery. And the infection Cheryl
though she saw was just tissue coming loose from the sides of my mouth. That
probably was also surgery related. It was white, and did not look normal at all,
but my dentist said it was normal, and would wash off as I cleaned my mouth. 

So, the bottom line is I am fine after this round of surgery. My next visit to
Houston in in two weeks, after Hurricane Harvey fades away. Right now, we are
sitting in Austin, watching for the expected 20 inches of rain over the next
few days, and waiting for school to start on Monday.





