AMA Nationals - Day 5
#####################

:date:  2014-08-01
:category: Life
:tags:  Aviation, Hobbies

Today was the last day of the AMA National Free Flight competition, and
modelers flew rubber events, and the largest gas powered models of the meet.
These big planes have wings with over 1000 square inches of surface and use
very large gas engines.

..  image:: images/DFF1.jpg
    :alt: D Free Flight model 1
    :align: center

These things are huge!

..  image:: images/DFF2.jpg
    :alt: D Free Flight model 2
    :align: center

Fighting the thermal gods
*************************

My old friend, Joe Clawson, from Florida was flying in this event today. As I
walked up a hill to watch him fly, I saw him launch a very nice model that
climbed like a rocket into the sky. As the engine quit, his plane transitioned
smoothly into a glide without losing any altitude, and immediately caught a
thermal that caused it to climb skyward. As the three minute time approached,
Joe was happy about the flight. The plane was circling and climbing nicely in
the thermal. Unfortunately, when the three minute time came, the dethermaizer
did not work, and the plane continued its climb into the bright sunny sky.
Those of us on the ground followed the flight until it had been up over 15
minutes, and it was so far away that seeing it with naked eye(s) was hard. I
lost it about then, but a spotter with binoculars kept it in sight until around
25 minutes, still climbing into the sky.

Joe had started walking after the model shortly after he launched it. After
about 30 minutes, I saw him climbing the hill toward me. He muttered something
about being stupid, and grabbed his radio direction finding gear, then walked
over to his van to go on a model hunt that took quite a long time to complete. 

Towards the end of the meet, Joe came back with his airplane and flew his model
two more times, maxing out both times. We were delighted that he found his
model, and that he continued to fly so well. I hope he won something for his
efforts.

Rubber Scale
************

One fun event involves rubber powered models that are scale models of real
aircraft. Several of these flew very nicely, motoring through the sky in the
light winds we had today

..  image:: images/RubberScale.jpg
    :alt: Rubber scale free flight models
    :align: center

Rubber Nostalgia
****************

Jim Coffin entered Rubber Powered Nostalgia event, where the models were
designed before around 1950 or so. His model flew nicely, but had issues
turning in a circle. As a result, it motored off in a straight line a few times
before he was done trimming it out. 

..  image:: images/JimNostalgia.jpg
    :alt: Jims nostalgia rubber ship
    :align: center

One Eye Adventures
******************

As I have said before, Jim Coffin has been my inspiration as I moved toward
losing my eye to cancer. Jim has lived most of his life with one eye, after
losing his in high school when a clutch exploded in a car he was working on.
Jim eventually got an artificial eye, and many folks do not know he lost that
eye. I am going to explore the artificial eye possibility in September during
my next visit to M. D. Anderson.

Jim and I talked about life with one eye several times during this week, and
his comments have been very helpful as I adjust to this new lifestyle. There
have also been a few amusing moments.

Jim was flying his rubber powered ship today, and I was helping hin get the
motor wound up and in the airplane before the launch. What was funny was me
trying to pick up a wire, or something he needed and trying to hand it to him.
I have trouble with depth perception, so picking up things is a challenge. Jim
was trying to reach out and grab the thing I was going to hand him, and he had
the exact same problem.

So there we both were, standing there trying to hand something off between us,
and neither of us was making contact. It was hilarious! Between us, we had two good eyes, and should have been able to figure this out.  (We did manage to get
it done, but not without a few smirks!)

Wrapping up
***********

This was a nice break. I got to spend the week visiting with old friends, and
relive a kind of adventure I really enjoyed back in my high school and college
days. It was things like this that made me want to become an Aeronautical
Engineer, and I am thankful for the help these folks gave me. Jim Coffin and
Joe Clawson were my mentors back then, and spending time with them was
priceless.

Tomorrow, I check out of the motel and head back to Dayton for a few more days
exploring my past. I am sitting in my motel room now, resting from another
adventurous day in the sun. Hopefully, I did not get burned!
