Snowball
########

:date: 2017-04-30
:category: Life
:Tags: Cancer, Pets, Cats

We lost Snowball on Friday. He let us live in this house with him for over 15
years. Now the house is quiet, lonely. It will take some time to accept the
fact that he is not here anymore.

BTW! Cancer sucks!

..  image:: images/Snowball.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Snowball on day bed

Snowball's Arrival
******************

I was in the front yard one evening, walking by the bushes in front of our
garage windows, when I heard something rustling in the bushes. It surprised me,
so I stopped and looked into the bushes to see what had made the noise. Way
back in there I saw some eyes peering back at me, then I saw that it was a
white cat, maybe a year old. I was not sure where he came from, but finally it
became apparent that he was from our neighbor's house. I figured he was on
patrol and stopped in our bushes on his way back home. He did not seem
interested in visiting, so I left him alone.

A few days later, he was back. He was just sitting there staring at the house
next door. He was a bit thin, and a little dirty, but a cat on patrol in our
neighborhood gets that way wandering around in the wooded areas between the
houses. Once again, I left him alone.

The next time I saw him, his tail was bloodied and a bit bent. That did not
look good, so I corralled him and walked him over to the neighbor's house. The
lady of the house went back inside and got a pillowcase,and slipped him into
that. She said she was going to take him to the vet to have that tail looked
at. I was not thrilled with that procedure, but he was their cat, so I left him
in their care.

The next time I saw our neighbor, I asked about the cat. She told me his name
was Snowball (what else would you name a white cat?) and he was getting picked
on by the kids in their house. The neighbors ran a foster care program for the
state, and had a lot of kids passing through there. Apparently, they picked on
Snowball to the point where he stayed away from the house until he got really
hungry and then he would return for some food. That explained why he was
camping out in our bushes. He was hungry, but not enough to brave going to that
evil house with them mean kids.

The vet had said there was nothing he could do about that tail, and she could
put him "down", or just let it heal on it's own. I seem to remember they put a
bandage on it, so he was now wandering the neighborhood with that on his tail.

Feeding Time
************

After a while, it was becoming common to find Snowball in our bushes looking at
his home. He clearly was not doing well at feeding himself, and was getting
thinner all the time. Finally, Cheryl and I decided we could give him some tuna.
We put some in a dish in the garage, and he snarfed it right down. 

This went on for some time. Soon, Snowball was hanging out in our garage,
hoping we would feed him more tuna. So, we added a water dish to the mix, and
Snowball started using our garage as his "home away from home". We even started
leaving the garage door open about a foot so he could get in there during the
day.

Snowball's new pattern was simple. Sleep in our garage during the day (bug us
for food occasionally, then head out into the neighborhood in the evening. We
figured he had some friends out there he would habg out with and "cat around"
so to speak!

Cheryl's Omaha Trip
*******************

One time, Cheryl headed up to Omaha for a doctor's visit, and I was left in
charge of cat sitting. Snowball returned home from one of his adventures, and
he was a mess. He had blood all over one paw, and was obviously showing signs
of being on the losing end of a fight. He looked bad enough, I decided he
needed to go to the vet. There was a vet up the road a couple of miles, so I
took him there. They said they could not treat him unless he had all of his
shots. I had no idea if he had all of his shots or not, and our neighbors were
not really folks I wanted to ask about that. I was not thrilled with the
pillow-case treatment Snowball got last time!

So I called Cheryl.

"Hey Cheryl, I am at the vet!"

(Silence) 

"Why are you at the vet? We don't have any pets!"

I told her about Snowball, and we agreed to give him his shots (the vet said it
would not hurt him if he already had them), and I would pay to get him patched
up. $300 later, he was fine and back at "home away from home".

Searching for Snowball
**********************

By now, Snowball was a fixture in our garage. Cheryl would be worrying about
him if he did not show up on time in the evening, so I started going out on my own "cat
patrol" to see if I could find him.

He had a route that involved wandering to each house on our side of the street,
and eventually, wandering into a depressed area behind the houses used to hold
water when it rained so things would not flood. That area fed into a run of
trees with a small creek, and connected with an area in our neighborhood that
is still undeveloped and full of deer. I would trace that route, slogging
through the bushes looking for the silly cat. Most of the time I never found
him, but on an occasion or two I did spot him. 

This was getting silly. We did not have a cat, but we did have a cat. And he
was fine with all of this! He had a nice place to sleep during the day, with
food and water, and could wander the neighborhood as he liked. What more could
a cat want?

The Mighty Hunter
*****************

I was sitting on the patio in the back yard one evening, and I say Snowball
coming up from the back fence. Hi was carrying something in his mouth. It
looked like a chunk of rope from where i was, but as he got closer, I realized
he had a snake!

Great, there are evil snakes in these parts. Just what we need, a snake-bit
cat. The vet will be happy!

He walked up on the patio and dropped the snake right in front of me. He seemed
pretty proud of what he had accomplished!

Then I saw that the snake was alive, and not happy at all. I looked him over.
He was an innocent variety snake, nothing rattling on this one. He had two
small puncture marks from where Snowball held him in his mouth, but did not
seem all that injured. I picked him up and carried him to the back fence and
dropped him over that into some bushes. Hopefully, he lived to tell stories to
his snakelets later in life!

Snowball was miffed at the loss of his prized catch, but some tuna and he
forgot all about it!

I did not tell that story to Cheryl, she would never have walked into our back
yard again!

How to Squash a Cat
*******************

Remember that open garage door? One afternoon, I came home from work and the
garage door was open as usual. In order for me to get into the garage, I had to
close it first, then open it. SO, I pushed the button on the opener.

Just as it started down, I saw Snowball start to come under the door. But it
was too low, and he stopped and tried to back up. I saw that he was going to be
squashed by the door, so I leaped out of my truck and ran to the door, grabbing
it just before it went all the way down. Snowball was laying there under that
door, obviously being crushed. I yanked on the door enough that he was able to
struggle back into the garage, then I let the door go and it closed all the
way.

I looked around, and my truck was wandering down the driveway all by itself. I
did not put it in park, and it was slowly backing into the street. So I ran
after the silly truck, and managed to get to it before it went into a ditch. 

I was breathing pretty hard from all of this.

I pushed the door opener button again and the door started up.

Out shot a white fur ball moving at Mach 9! Snowball had enough of that garage
was was running for his life. I was worried that he had internal injuries, so I
took off after him.

Several houses later, and several adventures hiding in bushes, I managed to
catch him. 

Off to the vet again!

The vet looked him over and did note a bruise on his side where the door had
hit him, but she said he had survived the ordeal, and would be a bit sore for a
while.

More cash out taking care of our non-pet cat, and we were back home. I needed
to calm down, this was getting pretty hard!

Evolving into a House Cat
*************************

Snowball got back into his normal pattern, and life returned to normal. Cheryl
had said, "He can stay in the garage, but under no circumstances can he come
into the house."

Yeah, right!

Snowball would walk up to our kitchen door if it was open and started walking
inside.

"Snowball can come into the kitchen, but under no circumstances can he get on
any furniture."

Yeah right!

Then he found a white chair in the living room, and started taking cat-naps on that.

"Snowball can sit on that chair, but under no circumstances can he go anywhere
else in the house."

Yeah, right!

Next thing we know, Snowball has the run of the house, and we are allowed to
stay there at his pleasure.

Feeding moved into the kitchen. He still spent the night in the garage, but now
he had free access to our home if we were there.

We started off keeping hm in a bathroom at night, with water and a litter box
for company. Eventually, that went away and he slept wherever he wanted!

FIV
***

I do not remember what happened that sent up back to the vet, but we had him
there again. He seemed to get into fights with neighbor cats, and usually ended
up on the losing end of that.

This time, the vet declared that he had FIV, an immune system deficiency that
is spread between cats through fighting. Cats with FIV are not supposed to live
a normal life, and should not be allowed to wander outside. FIV can be
controlled with Interferon, so Snowball started getting daily doses of that one
week on and one week off for the rest of hi life.

So, Snowball became a house cat! We brought him inside the house and he stayed
there most of the rest of his life (except for visits to the vet, or when we
put him into a boarding home when we went on trips.

Kitty Condo
***********

As all cats do, Snowball took to scratching on our chairs. Cheryl was not to
thrilled with that, so we decorated the important chairs with anti-cat sticky
tape, except for one white chair in our entryway. That chair became hiss favorite
scratching post.

Eventually, we decided he needed one of those cat climbing gadgets you see in
the pet stores. Those looked pretty expensive, so I thought I could build one!
I even found  pan on the INternet that looked like something we could build.

We bought the wood at Home Depot, and Cheryl and I found a rug remnant at a
local rug store. We called it the Kitty Condo, since it had an open topped
small room at the top, and several landings at different levels from the floor
up to about six feet.

We wound rope around two of the legs, and padded everything else with rug,
inside and out.

After looking it over, Snowball decided it was pretty cool. He would tear
through the house, spinning around the landings like a corkscrew gone wild, and
end up in the room at the top.

When we could not find him in the house, half of the time we would end up
seeing him lying in the door to the small room watching us look for him

If a kitty could grin, Snowball would have been doing that!

..  image:: images/KittyCondo.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Kitty Condo

King Kitty
**********

Snowball ruled our home for several years as an only cat. We fell into the
pattern of taking care of him, doing "kitty poop duty" every day as we cleaned
his litter boxes (we ended up with two, one in the laundry room and the other
in the bathroom where he slept for a while).

He did really well on the Interferon, and gained a fair amount of weight. All
in all, he was doing fine.

Snowball the Art  Lover
***********************

One day, we came home to find Snowball sitting on the chair in our entryway.
Above that chair was a painting of a house, and Snowball was staring directly
at that painting. We decided he was becoming an art critic. It was a nice
painting, but that was not what had his attention.

I puzzled over this situation for a minute, then gave the painting a closer
look. I peeked behind the thing and found the real object of Snowball's
attention.

There was a gecko hanging onto that painting for dear life. There was no way he
was going to climb down as long as that durned cat was sitting there waiting
for him!

Snowball developed a habit of adopting all kinds of critters as his personal
pets. He seemed fascinated by geckos, but the occasional flying bug was just as
interesting to him. Usually, I managed to rescue the critters and get them out
of the house before Snowball figured out what to do with them!

Enter the Villain
*****************

Cheryl had taken a job as the Executive Director of the Austin Humane Society.
A lady in Victoria, Texas (on the gulf coast) had spotted a part Siamese kitten
wandering lose in the streets, and decided to bring him to Austin. The Austin
Humane Society was a no-kill facility, and she wanted this kitty to have a
chance.

The kitten was named "Victor" (for obvious reasons), and when they let him
wander around, he found Cheryl's office. He decided she was pretty cool, and
would hang out with her.

Then they discovered that Victor had FIV, and they could not adopt him out.
That meant he would have to be put to sleep.

One of the techs, noting how Victor and Cheryl got along so well, noted that we
already had an FIV cat at home. Victor should go live with us. So, now we had
two cats!

Victor's nickname was "Thug". When he came into our home, we initially kept him
in the bathroom to see how he and Snowball would get along. There was a lot of
growling and sniffing going on along the bottom of the bathroom door, but
eventually they started putting up with each other.

Victor had a kind of swagger in his walk, like he wanted to be the boss! He
developed the habit of taking a swipe at Snowball as he walked by, but soon
enough they were best friends.

TKB
***

Both cats liked to look out the window. We have two windows with padded
cushions right along the window. We would open the window about six inches, and
both cats would hop up onto the cushions and sniff the air and look at the
birdies. What really set them off was the occasional gecko that would walk by
on the window ledge. There was a serious risk that one or both of them would
attack through the screen and they would be gone. We kept the window close
enough that they could not squeek (meow?) through.

The sight of those two sitting on the cushion was funny. We started calling it
"Two Kitty Butts" or TKB for short.

..  image:: TKB.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Kitties in the window


Cat Sitting
***********

One big problem with having pets, is figuring out what to do with them when you
travel. We found a local boarding place that had a bunch of rooms they would
put pets into and let them run around. Snowball and Victor would share a
bathroom area when we traveled.

The only problem with that is that we needed to make sure both cats got their
FIV medicines.

Eventually, we discovered that some of the technicians at the vet facility we
were using did cat sitting duties, and would come to your home as needed when
you were away. We started using this service, since then the cats could just
stay home and there was no problem with  dealing with the medicines. It was a
much better solution since these folks could take care of anything, even haul
them back to the vet if needed while we were away.

Life with the Cats 
******************

We settled into a comfortable pattern with the cats.They would greet us when we
came home, demand food, then ignore us until they wanted something else. You
know::

    Dogs have masters, cats have servants.

They added something to our home, and they seemed content to wander around the
house looking for comfortable places to sleep. Cheryl seemed to have problems
finding the cats. I would end up searching for them everywhere.

Snowball found several interesting hiding places. One was under a hassock in
our living room. It seemed to short for him, but he would hide under the skirts
around that things often.

My favorite hiding place was funny. We have a desk on one wall in our entryway.
Snowball would jump up on that desk and lie down next to a flower pot. He was
in plain sight, but we did not expect him to be there. So we would both walk
past the desk on a "Search for Snowball" action and not see him. We once found
Victor doing the same thing on top of the refrigerator. How he got up there is
a mystery!

Getting Older
*************

Snowball started to show signs of aging a few years ago. He started not eating
as much and had problems with his intestinal tract. What he ate was not working
its way through him. Eventually we took him to the vet and discovered two
issues. Snowballs muscles were not working right to push stuff through his
system, so we had to add medicine to his daily diet to help with that.

A worse problem was his heart. He had a "galloping" heartbeat, not a normal
one. We ended up taking him to a heart specialist who put him on still more
medicines. ALl of that seemed to be helping.

Snowball started getting really picky about what he ate. In the beginning, we
fed both cats a dry food, and added a wet packet for variety. Slowly the wet
food replaced the dry food. We would go to Petsmart and stock up on small cans
of food, and feed Snowball half a can every meal. Meals happened at 7am and
7pm. 

Then Snowball got more picky about which canned food he would eat. If we fed
him something he did not like, he would only eat a little of it. So, we started
feeding him more often, and recording what he would eat and what he did not
like. Snowball figured this out, and started begging for food any time he
wanted something. Feeding wend from twice a day to four times a day.

Cat Demands
***********

Cats are normally part of a pride. The pride defines who is top cat, and who is
on the bottom. In our home, I was at the top, and Cheryl was at the bottom! For
some reason, Snowball never bugged me during the night for food. But Cheryl was
his target constantly. I know why! She always caved in and got up to feed him,
no matter what time of day it was! Snowball liked to jump up on our bed and lay
down next to Cheryl's head and purr. LOUDLY. She would wake up and go feed him.
He never did that with me (probably because I would not leap up as easily!

In his last few months, he did start jumping on my chest when I lay on my back.
That might happen in the middle of the night, but , more often, it happened
when I was waking up in the morning. I would be on my back, and Snowball would
walk up my stomach and lay down there and start "exfoliating" my face! He would
lick furiously on my forehead, and nose, while I gave him a head massage. He
loved it, and it always ended with Snowball being carried out to the kitchen
for breakfast.

It was our routine.

Cats in the Sink
****************

We always kept a water dish in the kitchen, and another on in Cheryl's office
so Snowball had plenty of water available. He would drink out of the one in
Cheryl's office, but seemed to ignore the one in the kitchen.

His favorite watering place was Cheryl's sink in our master bathroom. He would
jump up there and wait until someone came by to turn on the water, then he
would lick at the stream of water. After he was done, he would lay down and
watch the water run.

He would demand to go to the bathroom a lot, and he even trained our cat
sitting folks to take him there when they took care of him. When he was
smaller, he would curl up in that sink and wait! We often found him there on
cat searches!

..  image:: KittyCondo.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Kitty Condo

More Medical Woes
*****************

While we were working on getting his system working right, we discovered
another ill. Snowball had developed diabetes! That meant we needed to add
insulin to his daily medical needs. Cheryl, ever the accountant, put together a
spreadsheet we used to track what he ate, (when he pooped for a while), and
when he needed what medicines. It took a full page to list all of that and we
had cells for each day of the week. The pattern was to record what was given so
we both would know what had been done. I have to admit i was not that good at
recording things on occasion, but the spreadsheet helped a lot as his list of
medicines grew.

All of this was hard to keep up with, but it helped. Snowball seemed to be
doing well, but he was not a agile as he had been. He could not jump up much,
so we had to lift him up to the sink, or onto our bed. Still, he was active and
pretty normal for a cat.

Bad News
********

I was in Dallas for a short trip. Cheryl called me to say she had Snowball at
the vet. She had noticed a swelling around his rear end, and it seemed to be
getting worse. She decided it needed looking at.

It was a tumor, and it had grown pretty big. The vet was pretty sure it was
cancer, and it was big enough that removing it would be very difficult.

She recommended a specialist, and we took Snowball there and again got the news
that operating would be very hard. Snowball's heart and age meant he might not
survive the surgery, and even if he did, the end result would not be good. He
would have no control over his bowels, and would have a tough life. Add to that
they were not even sure they could get the tumor completely out.

Snowball was obviously in pain, so we added pain medicine to his list. The
first thing we tried made hom very wobbly. He had a hard time standing up. We
switched medicines and he did better.

Still, the only thing keeping him going was all this medicine, and our constant
care.

One of our good friends, who occasionally took care of him, and called him "My
Pal" recommended his vet, and got Snowball an appointment.  Yet another
confirmation of what we already knew and we had to make the hard decision.

Snowball was in pain, and it was only going to get worse. We decided to spare
him that pain.

We took him to his doctor, a lady who had tended to him for years, and as we
both held him, we ended his pain. 

And our real pain started!

Saying Goodbye
**************

..  image:: images/Snowball3.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Snowball at rest

Snowball was part of our life for almost 15 years. Cats with FIV are not
supposed to live as long, but the vets all said he was still with us because of
the love and care he got at home. He was happy in his home! He was a kind and
gentle cat, and, once he got over being afraid of other folks, he was friendly
with everyone who came into our house.

Snowball had a way of making himself part of peoples lives. The staff at the
vet clinic all loved him, his vets loved him, and we loved him.

We got cards of condolence from everyone who knew him. All of the staff at the
vet clinic signed a card, we got cards from all of the doctors who cared for
him or saw him in those last few weeks.

The worse part of losing Snowball was removing all of his things. We did this
slowly. Now, the only thing visible in our house is the "Kitty Condo". I am not
sure what we will do with that. 

It is hard for both Cheryl and I to come home and not find a kitty waiting to
greet us. 

Rest in Peace, Kitty!
*********************

We buried Snowball next to Victor, who we also lost to cancer four years
earlier. Both kitties are in Kitty Heaven now, chasing each other and looking
for geckos.

Rest in Peace kitties, and thank you for sharing your lives with us!

