Christmas Memories
##################

:Date: 2015-12-24
:Tags: Life, Memories
:Category: Life


Well, here it is, Christmas Eve, 2015. Cheryl and I are at our home in Kansas
City. Hey, that is a huge new thing. This place has been a labeled a
construction zone for almost five years. Now it has been promoted to a real
home. It is almost complete, lacking a few cabinets in the kitchen, a counter
top, and a couple of fixtures in the bathroom off the kitchen. Oh yeah! And few
thousand dollars worth of kitchen appliances! With those in place, we can get
the place inspected and finally move in! Then our current blow up mattress and
two chairs will get some real replacement company!

But tonight is not about any of that. It is Christmas time, time to visit with
family! Hopefully, time to remember what this season is really all about. And
that is NOT about presents!

We had a very nice dinner with one of Cheryl's cousins, Sandra Register, and
Scott, Laura, and the grandson, Colin (who is the reason we own this house, of
course. Grandparents need a place to hide out after winding up the grandkid!)
Then we opened a few Christmas presents in front of the tree Colin and Grandma
decorated back in November.  Here we were a few hours ago:

..  image:: images/Christmas2015.png
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Christmas 2015 in KC

(That is me, Cheryl, Sandra, and Colin. Scott and Laura are hiding behind the
camera. Believe it or not, I am trying to smile. Hard to do with one side our
your face permanently welded into a frowning position. Hopefully Dr. Yu will do
something about that during my next adventure at M.D. Anderson!)

My First Christmas Memory
*************************

Being in this house, visiting with family, and opening presents took me back to
a much earlier time. My very first memory of Christmas must have been when I
was about five years old, living in Dunn Loring, Virginia, in a tiny
three-bedroom house. That was my first real house! We lived in apartments up
until then. I remember a tree in the living room, and a tiny bedroom right
behind the living room wall, that was mine. I had a baby sister, Carleen, er,
Connie (she hates her real name), who was about two and living in a bedroom
right next to my parent's bedroom. 

What I remember most vividly about that Christmas Eve was being told to go to
bed or Santa Claus would not stop by our house that night. Well, what five year
old wants that to happen? So, I went to bed early and pretended to sleep. I
fully intended to stay up all night and see this person and make sure I got all
the presents I was supposed to get!

Of course that did not work. I fell asleep for a while, and woke up right
around midnight. The house was dark, my parents were in bed. I was sure I heard
bells as I woke up. I lay there straining to her them again, and I thought I
did! I leaped out of bed and ran into my parents bedroom, jumped into their bed
and made sure they knew that Santa Clause was on our roof!

Yeah, right, kid! Go back to bed!

Later I was told that a huge oak tree next to our house had branches that
reached down to the roof. When the wind blew, they scratched the roof, and that
sounded like bells to a kid. Right dad! I believe you! NOT! I knew the REAL
truth, even if dad was bound and determined to explain what I had heard!

Well, I sneaked out of their room and stole a peek into the living room, but
saw nothing. I was sure I should not get caught looking when Santa came down
the chimney, so I hustled back to bed, and next thing I knew it was morning!

Christmas!

I heard mom in the kitchen, so I headed out, and was promptly told by my father
to get in the kitchen and ignore what was under the tree! I was learning the
family tradition that would be ours for the rest of my growing up time. We would be
marched past all the wonderful stuff under the tree (much of which Santa must have left)
and headed into the kitchen where mom would take FOREVER making breakfast for
us! Finally, after HOURS, we would be led into the living room where we sat in
front of the tree. Dad was responsible for handing out each present, and we had
to wait until it had been opened to make sure we all saw everything. It was a
huge PAIN for a kid to to be made to sit through all of this.

Lionel Christmas
================

The one thing I could not ignore was the train running around the tree, behind
it and in front of it. It had my name all over it! It was a Lionel 027 freight
train with about five cars and a locomotive blowing smoke out of the stack on
the front. My dad was working the big, black, transformer, and a set of levers
that worked the switches that made the train travel over a siding in front of
the tree. It was too cool for words!

I had to wait until almost all of the presents were handed out before dad even
let me touch that thing. 

Arrrrrgh!

My dad had a thing for trains, so this was as much for him as it was for me. I
remember him taking me to a train yard near D.C. when I was younger, and we
rode on a round table with a locomotive that was being worked on. It was an
amazing sight for an up-and-coming engineer (something I suspect started being
drilled into me about then!) These monsters were just cool! And, now I had one
of my own to play with. A bit smaller, but mine! (At least when I could pry the
controls out of dad's hands!)

That was my first train present, but not the last by far. Dad added a second
set, this one a futuristic train that was big enough I could almost ride on
it! That was also a Lionel set. Then he added an American Flyer set after
that. In addition he bought me as much track as he could, so much that I could
route the trains practically around the entire house. We had a blast setting
that empire up and playing with those things. I can still smell the smoke and
the ozone from the sparks that shot out from under the engine as the contacts
ran over the rails pulling power into the beast!

One year, after we moved back into a three bedroom apartment in Falls Church
that would be my home until I left for college, I took all the track I had and
did my first serious engineering project!

Runaway Trains
**************

The American Flyer cars were very light, and rolled super smoothly across the
tracks. I began to wonder how far I could get one to roll! Well, I had a ton of
track, and a two story home to play in, so I tried something.

I tool a bunch of straight track and built a support system using some of the
gazillion Western Paperback novels my dad had in boxes in our utility room. I
ran the track off of my bed, out the door from my room and down the hall toward
my parents bedroom. The car rolled smoothly to the end and had a bunch of speed
to spare. 

What next?
==========

Well, at the end of that hall, you turned around and headed down the stairs to
the first floor. Right! Could the car make that 180 degree turn and head down
the stairs? Well, a few more paperbacks, and I had a banked curve of track
making the turn. Guess what! The car made that turn and crashed down the
stairs.

Next up, the stairs!
====================

Well, I had tons more track, so I added straight pieces to reach the bottom of
the stairs. A few test runs produced some dents in the wall at the bottom of
the stairs (which I swore to mom must have been there when we moved in! What?
Kids lie to their parents? Nah!)

More paperbacks, another banked curve, and the train now could run from my bed,
down the hall, around the corner and down the stairs, around another banked
curve and shoot out into the living room. 

Serious fun for a kid with way too much track!

Get that train out of this house!
=================================

A bit more straight track, and I was through the living room, through the
kitchen, and out the back door. I was sure this was a record of some kind!

Just for more fun, one of my co-conspirators in this adventure and I took some
of those huge glass marbles and ran them down the same track. Sadly, they
seldom made it through the living room. But that marvelous American Flyer
passenger car, consistently sailed into the back yard.

..  image:: images/AmericanFlyerCar.png
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: American Flyer passenger car

All because of my dad gave me my first train for Christmas. Memories like that
last a lifetime!

I lost all of my trains in a fire in a store room where my mom kept all of my
high-school and college stuff while I was in graduate school. That made a huge
dent in my treasure chest! Still, I have those memories!

Tinkerbell
**********

About three years later, when I was eight and had a paper route and spending
money of my own, I decided to save up my money and buy the family a present for
Christmas. That was going to be a parakeet I had seen in the local Drug Fair in
Falls Church. (That place was to be my Christmas Eve stop for years. They
stayed open until about nine on Christmas eve, great for finding those last
minute treasures like the fire-extinguishers I bought for everyone in
desperation on a last minute shopping spree one year when I was in college.
Sad, but true!)

That Christmas Eve, dad and I walked the mile or so to the Drug Fair, where I
showed him my pick of the parakeets they had in the pet section. I sort of
forgot about all the other stuff we would need, like a cage, food, and other
junk. I had enough money saved up for the bird, and dad came to the rescue and
bought a nice round cage with a door on the lid, and a few other essentials,
like food!

We carried our haul back home in bags, and boxes, and got home after mom and
the now two sisters (Karen showed up forcing us to move into a bigger home)
were all in bed. 

Dad and I put the bird into the cage, and carefully wrapped the cage up in
Christmas paper. We set it on top of the old radio console we had (huge piece
of furniture back then!) and went to bed before the morning ritual.

When Mom and Carleen opened up the present, everyone was thrilled by the new
addition. We named her (we think it was a her) Tinkerbell! That bird lived in
our living room for the next dozen years, until I was off to college, when she
ended up in a bedroom.

Tinkerbell was my responsibility. I had to feed her, change the water, make
sure she had interesting reading material in the bottom of her cage. You know,
all that bird stuff you need to do. She and I bonded and she was always
chirping wildly when I can into the room. 

Dad, on the other hand, was her nemesis!
========================================

Dad would take her out of the cage, hold her tightly in his hand and hold her
up to his face and talk to her. Sometimes, he did this after too much
Budweiser! She was never happy with this kind of thing.  One year, she got
even. When she was right next to his nose, she chomped on it leaving a nice
scar that he wore for the rest of his life. Sweet revenge!

Dad did not leave her alone after that, but he was much more careful!

Tinkerbell never forgot me!
===========================

My sisters told me that Tinkerbell could recognize my walk as a came up the
sidewalk to the house. After I left for college, she would announce my return
any time I came home. 

She would climb out of her cage and ride on my shoulder as I visited with
family any time I returned. Of all my pets, I still feel she was the one I was
closest to. Gaizi, my Arabian mare, probably tied with her, but that was many
years later!

Sadly, Tinker bell died at age 14 or so, after being part of our family for her
entire life. We all still miss her!

Remember Christmas
******************

What has happened to Christmas? Sad to say, many of us fail to even go to
church during this time. We are missing our church events this year, since we
are up in Kansas City, but we still try to remember why this season is even
part of our culture.

Jesus was born on this day those thousands of years ago, to bring us words of
kindness, healing, and hope for our future. We all need that, more so now that
ever. Just watch the news on any given day, and see what a mess we can be. This
is about that message, and His birthday!

Whether you are a church-goer or not, history tells us of this man and his
mission to make better people out of all of us. So get out of those stores and
say thanks to Him! This is about Him, not so much about buying that cool
present you were told you need to buy!

I trust in Him, and the hope He brought to us all. Cheryl and I need that more
than ever, again now, as we approach round four in my cancer adventure.

Cheryl and I are praying that all of you have a very Merry Christmas, and enjoy
the New Year's celebrations and get home safely.

Signing Off!
************

I am sitting here in the front bedroom of our home in KC wrapping this story
up. Outside I can see the street lined with luminaries. Both sides of the
street are lined with white bags, a bit of sand, and a light, and all are lit
up brightly. Many of the houses are covered with Christmas lights. The only
thing missing is snow, but I will gladly pass on that. We are from Texas now,
and Texans have no idea what snow even is! (At least those of us down Austin
way do not. In the pan-handle it is another story!)

Oh my! I need to get to bed before Santa Claus gets here. It is almost
midnight!

Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good night!

From Cheryl and I with love!

..  :vim:filetype=rst spell:

