Tumbleweed
##########

:date: 2016-02-03 9:00
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories, Tumbleweed

Here is a stupid story for you, written as we wait for an MRI about my vision
issues tomorrow, and after cousin Bill just got back from asking some questions
at our new fire station a couple of blocks away.

I started thinking back to the last time I even talked to anyone at a fire
station, and this story came up.

Albuquerque
***********

I grew up watching silly western shoot-em-ups on TV (it was black-and-white
back then). We saw tumbleweed blowing across the open plains when the winds
were blowing. I knew what it was, but never actually saw one in real life.

Then I moved to Albuquerque.

We settled into a nice little two story stucco house with a couple of neat
patio decks and amazing views of the Sandia Mountains. Almost Heaven, was your
thought watching the sun set and the red glow on the mountains.

The house was great, and had a pretty big back yard fenced in by a stucco
fence, very common for the area.

It had not one blade of grass back there, just bare dirt that sprouted ugly
weeds all the time. Great.

After we got settled in, we had our first experience with a desert dust storm.
The winds blow, the desert mixes in a huge quantity of dirt, and the result is
astounding. You can barely see five feet, driving is stupid, and all you really
should do is sit and wait until it dies out. Even the cowboys in my old TV
shows knew that!

What I found out also got mixed into that dusty wind was tumbleweed. After my
first such storm, I looked out in the back yard, and it was full of those dry
bush-like things, some of them six feet across. They had hopped the fence and
piled up against the house and the fence on the opposite side. Great, what do
you do with this stuff.

Garbage
*******

My first thought was simple. This stuff had blown down onto my neighborhood
from the mesa just west of our housing development. If that stuff came from the
mesa, I would give it back.

So, being a good pick-up truck owner, I decided to pile as much of those evil
things as I could onto the truck and take it back.

I got a good load on board, and headed up to the top pf the mesa, along a road I
often jogged on. I found a ditch that looked like a nice spot, and stopped the
truck. I kicked my load of tumbleweed into the ditch.

I thought I had a pretty good solution there, until I spotted a park ranger
truck speeding my way. The area was part of a National Park whose boundaries
were not clear at all. They had a station at the bottom of the mesa, and
managed a set of trails by old petroglyphs on the rocks lining the mesa walls.
The ranger stopped by my truck and came up to me.

"You cannot do that!" There is a $350 fine for littering here."

"Littering? I am just returning tumbleweed to its home! There is no litter here."

"Doesn't matter, that stuff is classified as garbage, and there is a fine for that. 

I explained my plight, he offered to let me off with a warning, and I asked him
how I was supposed to deal with this pile of c#@%.

"Burn it!" was his advice.

Grumbling, I went back home.

Tumbleweed Raking
*****************

I got back to the house, and got out a rake I owned back when I had a house
with actual grass and trees. I raked all the tumbleweed into a pile in the
middle of the back yard, well away from anything that might burn. I stood
there, socked in sweat, admiring my pile. It was about 15 feet high, maybe 20
feet across, and all the tumbleweed in the yard was safely in that pile.

I wadded up a piece of newspaper, set it on fire. I walked up to the edge of
the pile and touched off what I thought would be a nice wood fire that would
take maybe an hour to burn through.

Boom!
*****

I was not prepared for that happened.

The entire pile exploded into flame like a bomb had gone off. The fireball
soared into the sky, I swear 400 feet. Nothing else got burned, but that was
definitely NOT the way to do this.

So, I called the local fire department to ask how this was done around here. He
told me what I had done was fine, except for that last step. He said:

"Take one of two tumbleweed out of the pile and light them off to the side.
Keep doing that until it is all gone."

Duh! Lesson learned. It was entertaining, scary, and unforgettable, and my
first introduction to living amongst the tumbleweeds.

Dust Devils
***********

Another interesting phenomena of living in the desert is dust devils.
Basically, these are small tornadoes that wander across the desert. Normally,
they are full of dirt, and can just walk by you causing no harm, and they were
fun to watch. 

On one of my jogs up on that same, litter-free mesa, I spotted one wandering
down the road toward me. But this one was not normal, it looked like a huge
flock of birds had gotten trapped in it. The thing was several hundred feet
high, and those "birds" were spinning around the thing as it approached. Only
when it got much closer did I realize that the thing had sucked up a bunch of
those evil tumbleweeds, and they were what was spinning around in the sky. I
remembered later that they used to call these things "trash movers" out in
California. 

Flying Volkswagens
******************

After living in the area for several years, we got used to living with all of
this. I still remember driving home one afternoon, only to get caught in
another dust storm. I was driving slowly along the road when Volkswagens went
sailing past my front window so fast you hardly had time to spot them. They
were huge, maybe 15 feet across. Actually they were just giant tumbleweeds. If
they hit the side of the car, they just bounced off and continued on their way.
Still, it was exciting to watch all of that.

Tumbleweed is just a big bush that grows in the desert. Lack of water will kill
the bush, and all the greenery falls off leaving a single stalk sticking into
the ground, and a wad of limbs and branches making a nice round clump. That
clump is a nice target for wind, and the wind pushes so hard on the dead bush
until that stalk snaps and the bush starts tumbling across the desert in the
wind.

Right into my back yard!

..  vim:filetype=rst spell:

