#######
My Flag
#######

:date: 2010-10-12
:category: Life
:tags: Veterans, Stories

Do you own a flag? I mean do you own a U.S. Flag? I have one flying in front of
my house. It is my way of saying I am proud of my country. It is also a sign of
respect for the country that I feel the need to show. I do not know where that
feeling, or that need came from. When I was growing up, all my friends had dads
who served in the military during World War II, and listening to their stories
filled me with wonder, amazement, and a deep sense that serving in the military
and helping protect our country was a good thing to do. So, I set off on my
journey to become an aeronautical engineer, and decided very early that my
career was going to be in the U. S. Air Force.

And it was! I served in the USAF for 20 years, and one of the proudest moments
in my life was when the folks in my last organization presented me with my
retirement flag. They managed to get me a flag that was flown over the U.S.
Capital on July 4, 1993. How cool is that!

Here is a picture of me receiving my flag on my last day on active duty in the
USAF.

..  image:: images/Retirement.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: My retirement


Many folks are proud of serving their country, and many of them fly the flag as
well. At the beginning of October, this year, I took my wife to Boston to see
fall colors (they hid from us), and to explore a bit of history. There is tons
of history in and around Boston. On our last day exploring Boston, we visited
the USS Constitution, the oldest ship in the U.S Navy. I have been on board
that ship many times in my travels, but this was my wifeâ€™s first visit.

..  image:: images/Constitution.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: USS Constitution

As we neared the stern of the ship, I noticed an older man holding a folded
flag across his chest standing near another younger man who was working a set
of ropes. The young man was raising flags up to the top of one of the masts on
the Constitution. You could buy a flag on the ship and get it flown on the ship
that same day.

..  image:: images/FlagMan.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Man with flag

When his flag was raised, my wife saw tears in the eyes of the older man. I
missed that, I was watching the flag go up. I would bet anything that he was a
veteran, probably one who served in the U.S. Navy. I almost stopped him as we
left the ship to ask, but out of respect for his moment on board that famous
ship, I just watched him walk away.

..  image:: images/FlagMan2.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Man with flag 2


Sir, I do not know your name, but thank you for sharing this moment with us. I
understand the tears. My eyes tear up whenever I see the flag go by, or see a
flag draped over a coffin, of even when I see a man having his own personal
flag raised on the Constitution!

My flag sits proudly on a shelf in my home office. It will remain in its case
until it serves one last duty for me, one I will never see.

Thank a vet today, many of them never hear anything from ordinary folks, and
still they serve this fine country.

Respectfully,

Roie R. Black  Major, USAF (Retired)
