#########
Round Two
#########

:date: 2013-03-09
:tags: Cancer

This week, my wife and I visited all of my primary doctors to see what we can
do about this new situation. Bottom line is that I will be having almost the
same treatment I had the first time. My oncologist declared me perfectly
healthy - except for that cancer part. Unfortunately, chemo will not do much to
help, so he is going to wait until after the surgery to decide what he can do
to help. There are new drugs on the market that can keep the tumor from getting
bigger, but do not kill it off.

My radiologist was his same old kooky self. Visiting him was kind of
interesting. He walked into the room with a big frown and said "This was NOT
supposed to happen!" He then sat down and brought up the CAT and PET scan
images on his computer. Boy, this technology is great! He showed us images
from this round and five years ago and showed us exactly what we are dealing
with. Ever looked at you own body in cross section top to bottom. It is
interesting and weird all that the same time.

This tumor is right behind my cheek-bone in soft tissue below my left eye. That
makes sense since I have been feeling like that area was swelled up for a while
now. The tumor is not very big, about an inch across, but it has to go. What
was good to hear is that the entire area where radiations was done the first
time is cancer free. He did not treat the area where the new cancer popped up,
but he had no reason to do so. Sigh! The really good news is that I can have
radiation treatment in this new area. So, I will be going through another full
round of 35 radiation treatments, and that is a good thing. It will be hard,
but I got through it before, and I can do it again! I do have to get a new
noodle strainer, so Cheryl and I plan on stomping the first one that is sitting
in our garage! (I am not sure why I even kept it!)

As we left the radiologist's office, my wife asked him what we should do to get
ready for all this. With a straight face he said "Do you drink? That is what I
would do!" I am reasonably certain that was not what my wife expected to hear!.
We all had a good laugh. 

The visit to the surgeon was not so pleasant. I trust him to do everything he
can to get rid of this evil, but the surgery will be hard since it is behind
bone. His description of the process left me feeling like I want to do a Rip
Van Winkle and sleep through the whole thing. Wait, I will sleep through the
whole thing. Good thing, I would prefer not to think about the procedure, and
focus on the final results.

It looks like we will do all this in about three weeks, after all the doctors
get things set up. I will be in the hospital for about 10 days, and recovery
might take a month.  How we fit that into my teaching is going to be a problem,
but I am working on ideas on how to handle this. 

The worse part of this is that I will need plastic surgery to fix the damage
that is going to happen to my face. We will be talking to these new additions
to my team of doctors after I get back from a trip to California for Spring
Break.

Wow, life sure has changed in the last three weeks! 

Let's see, how does the Air Force song start?

    Off we go, into the wild blue yonder....


I am going to PyCon 2013 in Santa Clara, CA, south of the bay in San Francisco.
I have not spent time in that technology land for some time, so it will be good
to get away and focus on non-medical stuff for a week. I plan on visiting our
Niece and Nephew in Monterey while there, and that will be nice as well. After
that the real adventure begins!
