Farewell To Clarence
####################

:date: 2013-12-18
:tags: Cancer

For around eight months now, Clarence the Clam has been welded to the side of
my face. I no longer think about it much. That is until I see small children
gawking at me, then I remember. Adults? They pretend they see nothing. It is
kind of amusing!

..  image:: RadiantRoie.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 400

One of my old high school classmates named the clam on my face Clarence,
because that was what her kids at school called a clam they had. Judy, was that
you? (There are two signs of senility: one is forgetfulness, and I cannot
remember the other one!)

Any way, tomorrow, bright and early, or should I say dark and early, Cheryl and
I will head off to a new hospital for a date with my plastic surgeon who plans
on taking a huge vacuum cleaner and sucking out the excess fat that has been my
clam for all this time. 

I am taking this picture with me so he knows what to do:

..  image:: RObertRedford.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 400

(http://www.brodway.com - article on Captain America Movie)

I would have used an earlier shot of this guy, but we are both a bit older, so
this will be fine. I am not sure we can make the hair come out right, but we
can try!

More rest
*********

I will be in surgery for about 3 hours, and I get wrapped up to protect my face
while everything heals. I was going to put up a picture of Boris Karloff in
`The Mummy`, but it turns out he was not wrapped up that well in that old
classic movie, and hardly anyone today even knows who he is! I would be better
off using the new Mummy movies, but they do not look much better!

I get to spend a couple of weeks doing nothing so I do not stress my brand new
face. After that, I go back for a check up right before New Years Eve. Then
another couple of weeks and school starts back up. Hopefully with a new and
improved me!

Cancer Free
***********

We did one PET scan a few months back (sorry for not posting on that) and
everything came up clean. Great. However, the area under my left eye keeps
swelling up from too many tears, and it stings a lot. Top Doc is thinking it is
nerves waking back up, and we both hope that is so. My next PET scan will be in
mid-February, so we will wait and see how things go after this surgery, and
then after the next scan we will know for sure.

Missing my blog?
****************

Cheryl told me there were complaints from some that I was not writing witty
blog posts much anymore. I will try to fix that. I taught an overload this last
term, and kept way too busy taking care of all those students. I had little
spare time, so I ended up neglecting the blog. Hopefully, next term will be
better! 

I will post another message after I get back upright after my adventure
tomorrow. Until then, thanks to all those who still ask about me, and check in
from time to time. Both Cheryl and I are grateful for your thoughts and
prayers!

