Phantom Memories 
################

:author: Roie Black
:date: 2014-04-01
:category: Life
:tags: Memories
:Title: Phantom Memories

This morning, Cheryl and I forgot everything about cancer and headed off to
Ellington Field, just South of Johnson Space Center in Houston to visit the
Collings Foundation Viet Nam Aviation collection, home of the only privately
owned F4D Phantom II fighter jet airplane still flying in the U.S. Supposedly
the Iranians have a few still flying, but I do not want to try to confirm that!

Rick Harris, head of Acquisitions and Logistics, met us at the gate and gave us
a tour of the foundations hangers where we saw an TA-4 Skyhawk, an F100 Super
Saber, my baby, the F4D Phantom II, and a brand new, built from blue-prints
made from an original ME 262 on display at Willow Grove Naval Air Station in
Philadelphia, German  ME-262, one of only 3 flying in the world. Sme folks
believe that if Germany had gotten more of these in the air WWII might have had
a different ending. Who knows.

..  image:: images/me262.png
    :align: center
    :alt: me262
    :width: 600

Naturally, we spent most of our time climbing over, under and around my F4. My
bucket list ride in that bird was our topic of conversation, and it will happen
as soon as they get a few parts for one of the engines. We will do an hour ride
out over the gulf, go right up against the speed of sound, honk around the sky
a bit, then scare Cheryl with a few high speed passes over the field before
bring her (the plane) back to mother earth. According to Rick, no one ever
de-planed without a big grin plastered on his face! I plan on not breaking that
tradition!

My F4 history
*************

I have told parts of this history elsewhere in this blog, but the memories keep
coming back, so I will tell a few more here.

First love
==========

I fell in love with this plane while still in high school. I worked in the
Falls Church Hobby Center and remember opening up a box of new plastic model
kits and seeing one of the F4C I think. I thought "that thing just look so
mean, it is beautiful". When I learned it was build by McDonnell Aircraft in
St. Louis, my interest got even higher. My grandmother lived there. Maybe when
we visited her I could get to see the plant and maybe even see a few of these in
person. Know what, on my next trip, i did just that. While taxiing to the
terminal, I could see F4s parked outside the plant, all waiting to fly off
somewhere. I never got close enough though!

..  image:: images/Phantom.png
    :align: center
    :alt:   Phantom
    :width: 600

I remember drawing pictures of the F4 in art class. I even drew a formation of
four of them flying over a background image of the Wright Brothers first flight
at Kitty Hawk. I have that picture framed in my home office. 

..  image:: images/kittyhawk.png
    :align: center
    :alt:   kitty hawk
    :width: 600

Off to college
==============

When I graduated from high school, I wanted to be an aerospace engineer. So my
parents scraped up enough money to get my tuition and books covered for one
term at Virginia Tech, but I had to pay for my Corps of Cadets uniform, and I
was short $250. I ended up borrowing money from a friend at the Hobby Center,
(Phil, I owe you to this day, even though I paid you back right away!) But I
had no money for a second term. So, I spent all available time trying to figure
out how I was going to pay for any more schooling.

The Cooperative Engineering program offered a way to do just that. You worked
in industry one term, them went to school one term. It took a four year program
out to five years, but you earned enough to pay your way. Great! All I had to
do was find an aerospace company that build a cool plane.

VPI had several candidates on the East coast. One that looked promising was
Lockheed in Georgia, who was building the YF-12 spy plane. But I knew no one in
Georgia, and that meant I would have to pay my own living expenses out of my
earning, and that would mean I might not be able to pay for all my school
expenses. 

Just on a whim, I went to the Co-op office at Tech and asked them to call
McDonnell in St Louis and ask if they had a Co-op program, and if so, if they
would be interested in letting VPI join in. They did and McDonnell said they
were interested, and yours truly was student number one in their new program. I
started in September of 1965, living with my Grandmother, and banked all of my
paychecks, (minus mad money) and started working in heaven for an aviation
freak. Every morning, I rode the bus to within a mile of the plant, walked to
the assembly line building, then walked down this line:

..  image:: images/assemblyline.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt:   f4 assembly line
    :width: 600

I climbed up the ladder and sat in the pilot's seat on more than a few of
these, even eating breakfast (carefully) on several occasions. What fun.

Flight test
===========

Two terms, I was assigned to Flight Test and got to monitor actual test flights
run to test systems on planes before they were delivered to the services. I
even got to write up the "Flight Test Results Memorandums" on those flights. On
one test, they taxied out a plane for a rain removal test where the diverted
engine exhaust gas through ducts across the front windshield and measured the
temperatures across the glass while the engines were running all the way
through full after-burner.

I got to sit in the pilot's seat with the canopy closed while a technician
monitored instruments on a cart beside the plane while the test was running. Oh
yeah, the tail hook was down and engages in a big steel hook buried in the end
of the runway to keep the plane from blasting down the runway. Phooey.

Still, I got to sit in the beast, and play pilot. I got to hear the noise and
feel the vibrations as two huge, powerful J-79 jet engines did everything in
their power to hurl that plane down the 12500 feet of runway in front of the
nose. Hey a kid can dream!

Sigh!

Then I got to sit in that bird, canopy up, while the technician towed the plane
back to the hanger at the end of the test. It was a great day for a college kid!

This is my bird
===============

..  image:: images/huganf4.png
    :align: center
    :alt:   hug an f4
    :width: 600

As soon as they dig up the parts, I will be scheduling the ride in this ship.
Jim Petty will be invited as my ground film crew, Cheryl will be there, and I
will tear a few holes in the sky in this ship. This has been on my wish list
since that first day in 1965 when I first walked down that assembly line at
MacAir in St. Louis. It is time!

Cars, anyone?
*************

Planes are not the only things I am interested in, how about old cars?

On the drive back from Houston, outside La Grange Texas, there is a Classic Car
outfit that is always closed as we sail by. Today it was open, so we stopped.
They had a wide range of interesting cars. In front they had a bunch of
Thunderbirds from the 50s and 60s, a few Metropolitans, some 50s Chevrolet
pickups. Inside, a 1964 Chevrolet Impala Super Sport 409 caught my eye. That
was my first car. This one was red, mine was blue. Sorry to say, mine only had
a 327, but otherwise, the same.

..  image:: images/chevrolet1964.png
    :align: center
    :alt: 1964 chevrolet
    :width: 600

We talked to the owner about his business, which seems more like a hobby than a
real business. Most of the cars are there on consignment, meaning they want a
lot of money for them. There were some neat cars there, but I do not want to
shell out $38,000 for that 64 Chevy (I should have kept mine!).

Home again
**********

We finally got home after a great trip. The medical part was a huge success,
and the side trip was a blast as well. Now we are trying to unwind enough to
get back to work (ugh!)


