More Nationals Flying
#####################

:date: 2014-07-31
:category: Life
:tags: Aviation, Hobbies

Today was another very nice day for Free Flight models. The sun was out and the
wind was light. That made flying pretty nice. There were enough thermals to
catch many airplanes and get them to their "max" time, which was two minutes
today, with a limited engine run. That also meant chasing was easier, since
most flights were well within the 1100 acre fiend.

Here is Jim, launching his rubber powered ship:

..  image:: images/JimsFAC.jpg
    :alt: Jim launching FAC
    :align: center

Exploring the beans
*******************

The first flight Jim Coffin made when I got there this morning, was a test
flight of an old-timer style rubber powered ship. The plane flew fine, but
refused to turn and motored off in a straight line over all the flyers cars and
over a bean field. Unfortunately it landed right in the middle of that field as
well!

..  image:: images/JimBean.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Jim in the beans

Jim got to figure out how to walk through soybeans. They were packed together
with hardly any room between rows, so all he could do was shuffle through the
beans trying to follow the rows and not trip. Fortunately, there was a gap in
the beans that went near where he landed, so it was not too hard to get the
plane. Then he had to navigate back out.

The biggest problem with all of this was the beans were wet from the morning
dew. So, he got soaked from the knees down, but that made his legs cooler until
things dried out.

Jim also flew his F1Q in another event. Here is a launch:

..  image:: images/F1Qlaunch.jpg
    :alt: Jim launching F1Q
    :align: center

This was Jim's best flying model, and he got a max flight out of it today.
Unfortunately, on other attempts, it fell out of the thermals and did not max
out. 

Coupe d'Hiver
*************

This is an event I used to fly in many years ago, but it has grown up and has
much more technology behind it today. These craft have carbon fibre tubes to
hold the wound up rubber band, and thin aluminum tubes to support the tail
section as well. The modelers use a pretty sophisticated winding scheme to make
sure that a rubber band does not explode and wipe out a model as they prepare
for flight.

..  image:: images/CoupeReady.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Coupe rubber ready to fly

You might laugh at the idea of using a wound up rubber band to fly a serious
model. If so, you probably flew a simple one as a kid, and you remember that.
Rubber Power in these models is very different!

First, you use a defined weight of rubber, and the actual rubber is pretty good
stuff, capable of putting a lot of power into the propeller. You loop the
rubber band several times forming a bundle that is slightly longer than the
distance between the propeller and a rear aluminum tube at the back of the
motor tube. The trick into getting this to work so well is how you wind the
rubber up.

First, you get an old fashioned hand drill and replace the drill bit with a
hook. Most modelers also add a "torque meter", a device that measure how hard
the rubber will spin the propeller. Then you hook this up to the front of the
rubber band and pull it out of the model three or four times its normal length.
Then you wind it up. By stretching the rubber out, you can pack in an
incredible number of turns, far more than the old fashioned number you got as a
kid. As the winds pack in, you let the rubber shorten up until you reach the
limit of how many turns you can pack in. Figuring out this number may result in
blowing up a model! For that reason, advanced modelers have figured out a way
to wind the rubber completely removed from the model. They use an aluminum tube
with a slot in it to let the rubber get in and out. This tube, with the wound
up motor is slid into the motor tube on the model and hooked to a tube at the
back of the model. They then slide the tube completely out of the model and
hook the front part to the propeller. When the model is ready to launch, all
you need to do it let go of the propeller and off it will fly!

In this particular event, it is possible that it will take almost two minutes
for the rubber to unwind. What happens, though, is that there is a burst of
power at the beginning of the flight which is used to get the model up high,
then the torque in the rubber goes down, and the model enters a cruise mode
where it might not climb, but it might now fall back down either. As the power
falls off, eventually it reaches a point where it is doing more harm than good,
so a device stops the propeller from spinning, and the propeller blades fold
back along the nose of the model, reducing drag and the model, becomes a pure
glider.

All of the pieces of the models come apart, and here is another carrier
designed to hold a number of planes These boxes are made of light plywood and
braced by the compartments holding the parts. Some modelers ship these boxes to
events.

..  image:: images/CoupeCase.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Coupe carrying case

There are a variety of events for Rubber Power. Here is Dave Lacey launching
his plane on a test flight:

..  image:: images/DaveRubber.jpg
    :alt: Dave Lacey launching rubber ship
    :align: center

Old Timer events
****************

There is a group of modelers who specialize in flying models whose designs and
power plants date back to the 1930's. Here is one such ship. The engine on this
thing looked like it had ignition (spark plug) power, but it might also be a
diesel powered craft. 

..  image:: images/AntiqueModel.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Old time model with ignition engine

Whirling Dervishes
******************

Perhaps the oddest event I watched today was Discus Launched Glider. These
airplanes are fairly large and designed to be held by the wing tip and slung
into the air after the modelers whirls around like a discus thrower, slinging
the model into the air.

..  image:: images/DiscusHLG.jpg
    :alt: Discus HLG 
    :align: center

I decided that I should take movies of the modelers doing this, as one modeler
had trouble keeping on his feet after the launch. It was almost as much fun
watching the dance up to launch as the flight itself!

Thermal Sniffers
****************

Since finding thermals is so important, many modelers use technology to help
out. Here is a fairly hi-tech "sniffer" that holds both a temperature sensor
and a wind speed indicator.

..  image:: images/ThermalSniffer.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: thermal sniffer

This one had graphical displays to show trends of both. When a thermal blows
by, the temperature goes up and the wind dies down a bit (actually, it shifts
direction in an upward direction. Most sniffer stations also sport a long
fly-fishing pole with a long mylar streamer on top. You can see the thermal go
by as the streamer rises up. These things are all over the place, so you can
see thermals over a wide area if it helps. 

Another idea for tracking thermals is to launch soap bubbles into the wind and
watch them float along. Here is a bubble machine that did this. It did not seem
to be too popular. Even the owner only turned it on a few times during the day.

..  image:: images/BubbleMachine.jpg
    :alt: Bubble maker
    :align: center

Electric Free Flight
********************

If I get back into this hobby, the models will all be electric powered. In my
past, we used gas engines, which are hard to start (and can bite your fingers),
and messy. The gas powered events are still very popular, but i like the ease
of flying the electric jobs.

..  image:: images/E36launch.jpg
    :alt: E36 launch
    :align: center

All you need to do on these things is charge the battery using a car charger,
mount the battery in the model, then wander out to the launch site. There is an
electronic timer (something my students could design as class projects) that
controls the length of the motor run, then triggers a tiny servo mechanism to
release a cable that holds down the stabilizer (the small wing at the tail).
This is the "de-thermalizer" that brings the model back to earth after the
maximum flight time is reached. 

To launch the model, the modeler holds the model with a thumb on one button on
the timer and waits for the thermal to come by. As soon as they are ready, you
aim the model skyward, and pitch it into the air. As your thumb comes off the
button, the motor fires up and away the model goes. Ideally, the airplane
climbs skyward at a steep angle, usually turning in a tight circle as it climbs
away. When the motor is shut down, the trick is to make the model slow down to
gliding speed and level off smoothly, losing as little height as possible. This
transition takes the model into a gliding circle. Hopefully, the model will fly
into another thermal and rise up in the sky as it circles. If it falls out of
the thermal, it glides back toward the ground. 

If the model is still in the air when the max time is reached, the timer
triggers the servo activating the de-thermalizer and the model parachutes back
to earth on the wings. If the model glides into the ground before that time,
well the official flight is over and the modeler's flight time is recorded.

In the old days, we used mechanical timers to control the gas engine run. The
timer would pinch the gas line stopping the flow of gas to the engine bringing
it to a stop. Then we used a chunk of window cord which we lit with a match.
The cord would burn slowly and the length of the cord controlled how long it
would take to reach a rubber band holding the tail down. When the rubber band
burned through the model would de-thermalize. Not very sophisticated, but it
worked!

One more day
************

Tomorrow is the last day of competition, then I am going back to Dayton for a
few more days exploring old haunts. The model events tomorrow include rubber
powered scale, which is another of my old events. Should be a nice way to wrap
up this adventure!



