########################
Experimenting with Drugs
########################

:date: 2008-04-04
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer

Hi folks,

Well, we just finished radiation treatment 22 today, so we have 2.5 weeks to
go! YEAH!

One new item, remember the nausea problems? Well they got pretty bad after I
stopped taking the steroid that made me not sleep. So Monday the chemo doctor
decided to skip a treatment this week and work on nausea and nutrition. So he
put me on yet newer drugs. This time one is derived from marijuana! (Hey Dudes
and Dudettes, howyadoin? Hey Cheryl - seen my tie-died shirt anywhere? - slap!
slap! - OK I'm better now!) The Air Force Officer in me freaked out at the
thought of this, but it does seem to be working - except for a low grade
headache. The good news is my appetite came back a bit - but I cannot eat
anymore, so I am having my food the easy way - stuff it through the feeding
tube! (Look ma, no dishes!)

We visited the dentist who built my plate to have it refitted this week and
continue to try to convince Blue Cross that it is not a dental appliance but a
cancer - related item. So far, no luck - but they are listening and the
dentist is sure it can be done - so we continue to do battle! Ah, the joy of
US Health Care!

Cheryl is working pretty hard to keep up with me and her work. She does all
the silly things at home the doctors want me to avoid - like cleaning up after
kitties (She says I will owe her big when this is done! I already do now!) We
are both keeping up with church and work, but the radiation is taking a toll.
I have a pretty constant ache in the area and just about anything I try to
drink stings a bit, but it is not so bad I cannot do it. The doctors told me
it will take any where from 4-6 months to completely recover from all of this
- something I am not dwelling on at all!

The messages are still coming in, and I thank all of you for your continued
support and prayers! The end of all of this is nearer every day, something to
look forward to!

All my (our) love and thanks to all of you!


