##################
Becoming a Teacher
##################

:date: 2013-09-08
:tags: Stories

In church today, we started a series that is exploring why we are even on this
planet. It got me thinking about my value to this world, something Cheryl has
wondered about as well. I would bet we all do that at some time or another, and
that is what the discussions at church will be about. I have asked myself that
question many times before, usually when things are not going so well. Things
are going fairly well now, even considering my recent adventure with cancer. So
I started wondering, once more, if I am making a difference in this world once more.

..  note::

    I do not consider myself to be an overly religious person, so I do not talk
    about that very much. I am a believer, though. This world is so full of
    wonders, there must be a higher power in charge of things. I grew up going
    to a Methodist church in Falls Church, Virginia, but never really felt like
    I belonged there, it was too big, and too formal. Cheryl and I looked
    around Austin for a church home we could feel comfortable joining, and
    finally decided to become active at `Gateway Community Church
    <http://www.gatewaychurch.com>`_ in Austin, Texas. This church was founded
    to help those exploring this thing called religion figure things out. No
    pressure, just a place to explore and meet others doing the same thing. It
    has been a huge success here, so much so that Gateway is getting big as well.
    To keep it feeling like home to everyone, Gateway has split up into a
    number of smaller campuses that focus on one area of Austin. We even have
    satellite campuses around the U.S., and even in Europe and Australia!
    Hardly small, but we are trying to keep that small feeling.  Cheryl is even
    on their Board of Directors. 

When I think about it these days, I end up feeling that my value to the world,
and through that, my reason for being on this planet, comes from my drive to
help use technology to make our world a better and safer place. I dedicated the
first part of my professional life to the safety part. Growing up as a child of
the war fighting men and women of WWII, that drive to serve came naturally. As
hard as it is to understand today, my parents watched the world come unglued,
driven by maniacs who wanted to force their will into our minds and souls. My
parents generation fought long and hard to stop that, and I listened to their
stories and came to understand why we need a strong military force even today.
We here in the United States do not seek to force our wills on anyone, we seek
the freedom to explore the lives we want to explore. We are willing, and able,
to defend ourselves, and are willing and able to help others who need our help
in preventing others from imposing their wills on them as well. I am hugely
proud of that part of my life!

When I left the service, I first started out working as a consultant with
non-profit organizations who needed help getting computers involved in their
work. Many of those organizations had little money, so they used hand-me-down
equipment, and I got to figure out how to make all that work. I was pretty good
at that, but it was not as fulfilling as my third career. I discovered that I
liked to teach, something the Air Force let me do in their graduate school in
Dayton, Ohio. So, I decided that I would once again become a teacher!

*******************************
So, how did I become a teacher?
*******************************

Simple, really. If you have read any of my other stories, you might know that I
grew up in the Washington, D.C. area and spent a lot of time as a kid in the
Smithsonian museums on the Mall. In those museums I saw hundreds of exhibits on
all kinds of things, and was captivated by them all. Some were fun, some scary,
some even grossed small kids like me out. But having access to all of those
neat exhibits started shaping my mind very early. I started understanding how
all kinds of things worked, and started asking myself how other things worked
as well.  I started becoming a curious person, and I think that was a key part
of shaping who I am!

*********
Curiosity
*********

Being curious means you want to know more about something. Some people are very
limited in what they are curious about. Some are curious about the wrong things
(like what your neighbors are up to behind those closed blinds). Being curious
about how the world we live in works seems just fine to me. What fascinated me
even more was learning about the people who figured things out in the past, and
learning how those folks learned how to figure things out in the first place. I
started learning what scientists and engineers did with their lives. It
occurred to me at a very early age that learning how airplanes worked well
enough to design them might make for a great profession. Far better than
becoming a fireman! (Not that firemen are not very important folks, my apologies to
any firemen, or firewomen, reading this!)

So I headed down the path to become an engineer, specifically an Aerospace
Engineer, since spacecraft were becoming very important flying vehicles as I
grew up! That explains how I ended up working as an engineer, but not how I
became a teacher. 

********
Teachers
********

There is an old joke that says "those who can, do. Those who can't, teach" I
seriously hope that is not true. 

When I first heard this joke, I thought that they meant that good engineers and
scientists eventually reach a point in their careers where they burn out and
stop wanting to do that work any more. Since they have all this knowledge about
the past, they decide to start telling stories about their past work and become
teachers. 

On the other hand, I have run into more than a few teachers who started
teaching the day they graduated with their new degree! Those folks have never
really "done" much, and I always felt that was a mistake as well. They have not
burned out, but neither have they applied their knowledge to making the world a
better place. They have not felt the satisfaction of doing a job well, or felt
the pain of having a project fail. They have not lived the life of an engineer
They may feel that they are helping by working to create new engineers and
scientists, but I am not satisfied with this approach.

My curiosity drives me to explore how the technologies we depend on in our
daily lives are working today! As I see new developments popping up, I am
driven to figure out how those developments work, and how they might be used to
improve some part of our lives. 

********************
The joy of discovery
********************

When you study something, trying to figure out what is going on, that moment
where the light goes on and you suddenly have it mastered is one not to be
missed. Even as a kid, when a display at the Smithsonian made sense, I was full
of excitement. I wanted to share that feeling, so I started telling my parents,
sisters, and friends all about it. Most of the time, they rolled their eyes and
wished I would go away. But, the joy of discovery was like a drug, I wanted
more of that feeling. So, I would tackle another subject, and try to figure out
something else. I never seemed to run out of things to explore. Normal people
figure out that they are more interested in certain subjects, and limit their
explorations and study to that one area. I seemed to have done that with all
things aeronautical, but I always kept my eyes open for interesting topics, and
eventually, computers jumped up and needed exploring. 

Figuring out how computers work absorbed my interests long enough to change my
direction in my professional career. Not that I liked aviation less, I just
discovered that I was pretty good at figuring out how computers worked, and
making them do things I thought they should do. I became a "Computational Fluid
Dynamicist" Boy, that is a fancy term for someone who uses computers to figure
out how airplanes fly!

***************
Telling stories
***************

When I started sharing my excitement when I figured something out, I discovered
that helping others learn about those things was fun as well. Every once in a
while one of my friends would get excited enough to want to join me in
exploring something. The first time that happened in a big way was when a
bunch of us decided to start building our own flying vehicles, and we began
building model airplanes. 

The story telling part is important, since that is what teachers do, They try
to tell a story that excites a student enough that they want to figure out
something. Unfortunately, far too many students end up in classes they really
do not feel are important to them, and the excitement is missing. That is the
challenge of teaching. The instructor is obviously excited about what they
teach (or should be!) Their goal is to pass that excitement on to the student
by making the material interesting and showing them how it can help them in
their lives. That last point is where those teachers with little experience
outside of the classroom fall down. 

I like telling stories, and those who sit in my classroom (and Cheryl, bless
her) will tell you I have a bunch of them. They will also tell you I am pretty
passionate about the material I teach, and about the things I have done in my
life. I talk about all of that, always trying to make something click in their
heads that will cause them to have as much fun in their lives as I have had in
mine.

**********
So I teach
**********

I take my intense curiosity and stay on top of those technologies I find most
enjoyable, work to figure out how it all works, and work to figure out where
that technology fits into the lives of other folks. I grab a bunch of students
in a closed room and try to push the joy of figuring things out into their
heads. If they can get off of their Facebook page long enough, some times it
all happens in just the right way. I see the light go on, and I see the
excitement building up in them!

A teacher can ask for no more. A teacher should settle for no less!

That is how I became a teacher!

**********
Postscript
**********

At no place in this review did it ever occur to me that I was working to make
my life better. It was all about figuring out how the world around me worked,
and sharing my discoveries with those around me, so they would understand their
worlds better. Unfortunately, it seems that many folks I encounter are just
focused on what they can get out of anything that occupies their time. I wish
them well, but I think they are missing the point. It ain't about you, folks! I
am betting that will be the theme in our new church series!
