UltraSounds of Silence
######################

:date: 2014-09-05
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer

This morning, we got up early, checked out of the motel, and headed off to the
UltraSound test to see what is going on with my lymph-nodes. 

We got there, supposedly for prep work at 7:30 and the test at 8:00. I actually
got called in around 8:30am, and the test started closer to 9:00am! So much for
starting the day smoothly. (Cheryl did get a lot of work done on one of the
hundreds of puzzles that are scattered around this place!)

The prep was mostly to have me change into one of those silly shirts, then lay
down on a bed. The draped me with a warm blanket (love those - that place is
cold!), and left me there for about an half hour! 

Then a technician came in and did the ultrasound test. They basically just run a
wand over your skin, and get images of whatever is below the wand on a screen.
They scanned both sides of my neck, and then the tech went off to have someone
read the results. She came back in later to tell me they were going to take a
few measurements, scanned me some more, then left for another 20 minutes.

Finally, a doctor came in and said that everything looked fine, but because of
my history, they were going to do a needle biopsy of the lymph node in
question. Great! More needles!

The biopsy was interesting. I had to lay on my side while this was going on.
There was a monitor right in front of me that the doctor watched, and I watched
as well. They numbed the area with more of that lidocane stuff, so I did not
feel much of anything.

The actual biopsy involved poking a needle into my neck while watching where it
was going on the screen.  It took two tries to actually make contact with the
node, and, based on the screen, what they were looking at was tiny. The node
was about four times the size of the tip of the needle! The doctor kind of
sawed a piece of the node off (it only takes a few cells, he said) and they get
sucked up through the needle. 

Once they were done, Cheryl got to come in and we waited for a quick reading on
what they found. About a half hour later, we were told that everything looked
normal, but the official results will not be available for a day or so.

Heading back home
*****************

Finally, after over a dozen appointments, we were heading back home, with good
results for most things, but a few test results outstanding. We are not sure
about my nose, and need official results for the other tests. But, all things
considered, it was a good trip!

Except for the truck carrying a huge chunk of bridge part that tried to make a
turn and wiped out a traffic pole and a bunch of lights, then got stuck right
in the middle of the road blocking everything. Traffic was snarled for miles!

We finally made it home in time for Cheryl to make an afternoon meeting, and me
to make a nap before dinner.

Thanks for the support
**********************

Once again, Cheryl and I are thanking all of you for the support. Cheryl
managed to send out some emails, and text messages to folks about what we were
going through, and handled the dozens of inquiries she got while we waited.
We do appreciate all of the kind thoughts and prayers. God came through the way
we were all hoping this time, and we are especially grateful for that!

I will post the final results and let you know what comes next. We suspect that
we will be back to Houston sometime soon for the "debulking" work.

Postscript
**********

While waiting for an appointment, somewhere in that three days, I called the
Collings Foundation to see how my F4 is doing. We am waiting for the engine to
get back from California where a few of the turbine blades were replaced as
part of an overhaul. Then I will get my ride in this amazing machine! Rick
Harris called me back to report that the engine is running well, but it will
not "throttle up" to full power, so they have to change out some parts in the
fuel system. Durn, at full power that engine (well, actually, two of them) will
push the F4 to over 1600 miles per hour! We will be forced to stay well below
that speed when I take my ride, actually below 800 mph. Cannot break the sound
barrier. We might knock an oil worker off the platform in the Gulf and give him
an unexpected bath.

In any case, the engine should be back soon, then a tweak to the ejection
seats, and my ride may be on! I owe that airplane my entire career, since
working at McDonnell Aircraft was the only way I managed to get through
college. I simply would not have made it any other way. My payback will be to
pay for this ride, and help keep that plane flying. (Actually, the AFLAC duck
is paying for the ride! Gotta love that duck!) The Collings Foundation F4 is
over 50 year old, but still quite a machine!

..  image:: images/Phantom_II.jpg
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Bucket List Ride
