Silly Conversations
###################

:Date: 2016-05-18
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories

I like to engage my fellow human beings in conversations that take them to
unexpected places. Most of the time, it gets a laugh!

7-11
****

My local 7-11 store has a really annoying doorbell that goes "ding-dong"
whenever the door opens. I was standing at he counter, staring at an add for a
7-11 app for my iPhone:

"If I open that app, does it go ding-dong like it does in here?"

"I never thought of that"

"We should rename this store the Ding-Dong store!"

"I know, it drives me nuts!"

"If I worked here, a 45 would take care of that. This is Texas after all!"

Dr. Scholl's Office
*******************

On my last visit with Dr. Scholl to check on my hearing once again, he had me
tested and found no real change in my ear mechanics, but the tube he put in my
eardrum was clogged, so he pulled the old one out. He asked if I wanted to put
another one in. Since I survived the last installation, I agreed to the
procedure. When the nurse came to get me for the procedure:

"I suppose it would not be politically correct if I yelled 'No, No Dr. Scholl!
Not the knife again!' loud enough that the folks in the waiting room could
hear!"

"Well, we would all get to go home early!"

Then to Dr. Scholl:

"I suppose I should take out my hearing aide so I can't hear you say 'Oh Damn'
while you are doing this!"

He snickered at that!

"I really prefer to be alseep when you come at me with that knife!"

I do trust this guy with my life! He has done his best to keep me going for all
this adventure with cancer. He has an outstanding reputation for succeeding at
that! We get along just fine, so I get to pick on him a bit. (He picks back,
BTW).

Last time I visited him, he entered the office with:

"Did you hear the news. Next week the real Presidential candidates will show
up!"

I wish!

Best Buy
********

I do not know why, but every time I go up to a checkout counter:

"Did you find everything?"

"Do you know how long it would take to find everything? Besides, if you want me
to do an inventory, you are going to have to pay me!"

I usually get a blank stare at that! 

All of these come from listening to what folks say, and thinking about the
words literally. We often do not think about how silly some things we say
really are!

In a Restaraunt
***************

How many times have you herd this:

"My name is John, if I can be of any help to you!"

"What is your name if you cannot be of any help?" is my reply (some of the
time, especially if it has taken way too long to get noticed by that waiter!)

Back in 7-11
************

As I check out in the morning, I often hear this:

"Have a nice day!"

"It is too late for that, I have to go to work!"

Yuk, yuk! (Actually, I like my work!)

In my Classes
*************

It seems going to class while a student is getting very hard for some to do.
Especially in Texas, it never works to take attendance when class is supposed
to start. I usually walk into the room, look around and say:

"Where is everybody?"

Those in the room look at me with a strange glare!

OK, where is everybody ELSE!"

We usually agree that those there to hear this exchange are probably going to
do better than those who show up 15 minutes late. (The record is 90 minutes
late, as we were all leaving the room!)

Silly Conversations!
********************

Or, just me having fun!

(Or just me being annoying!)

..  vim:filetype=rst spell:

