###################
The Idiot Light App
###################

:date: 2013-09-18
:tags: Stories

You know the old saying (well, the new, old saying): "There is an app for that!"

This morning, on the way to work, I thought up a new app. I was following this
Honda sedan and it was miles behind the car in front of it. He would not close
up the gap and car after car pulled into our lane in front of him. He was
slowing every one in the lane. 

Looking into his car from behind, I could see his face in the rear-view mirror
and I realized he was intensely focused on his phone. He only looked up
briefly, probably to make sure he had at least a mile between his car and the
next car, then poof, back down to his phone. I am reasonably sure this is
against the law! It is sure stupid! I wished I had an Abrams Tank and could
flatten him right then and there! (Sorry Tank drivers, that is probably not
nice, but...)

Then I thought up an app for that!

It seems that most cars have Mrs. Garmin on board these days. Mrs. Garmin knows
exactly where the car is, and it knows how fast it is going. Some Garmins also
have a Bluetooth capability that can interface with the phone. So, I came up
with an idea.

Let's have the phone and the Garmin get together and do something if the car is
moving and the "Idiot on board" is manipulating the phone. The Garmin
knows how fast the "Idiot" is driving, so we can have the app phone someone
(like the police) if the "idiot" is speeding. We can also report texting when
the car is going slowly on a major highway, especially when the car is moving
much slower than the posted speed limit. The "idiot" is probably in heavy
traffic and paying little to no attention to driving. We could even hook in the
passenger seat sensor to make sure it is the driver doing the phone stuff! I
suppose if there are passengers, we can't be sure it is the driver being an
"idiot"

Now, I know someone will say that in an emergency, using the phone in the car
is necessary. I know that is true, but believe me, there was no emergency going
on in that Honda!  Maybe I could at least put an "Idiot on Board" light on top
of all cars and have the app blink that light so other folks can keep out of
their way. 

Sigh! Some one will scream that this is an intrusion into their personal
freedoms. So the app will not get written. I guess we will just have to wait
until Nature takes care of the situation! Nature hates idiots!

There! I have vented sufficiently. At least until I find myself behind another
one!

