Huh? Whazzat?
#############

:Date: 2014-11-05
:Category: Life
:Tags: Cancer

It has been a while since I posted anything, and it is time for an update. The
good news is that Cheryl and I went over to M. D. Anderson last night for a
morning appointment with my Plastic Surgeon, Dr. Yu. We barely had time to say
hello to Cheryl's fisheys before they called us in exactly on time. Boy that
never happens!

..  image:: images/CherylsFisheys.png
    :align: center
    :width: 350
    :alt: Cheryl's Fisheys

The meeting went well. My "bulk" which is the chunk of my leg they used to fill
in the void left when they took out the bone below my left eye and whatever
else they had to remove to get rid of the last tumor, looks pretty good, and
Dr. Yu is sure he can tune things up to make it all look much better. He is also
going to do a bit of work on pulling up the side of my mouth, which now sags
enough that I drool any time I try to drink fluids. (The bad part of that is he
will have to "borrow" a bit more tissue from my leg.)

I bet you thought those legs were for walking. Wrong-o, they are a farm that
grows tissue that can be used when they need some for another place on your
body. I never knew that! Fortunately, both of my legs are still good for
walking, and I am giving some thought to seeing if they can still run. I miss
that!

Everything looks good for the surgery, we just need to get it scheduled, which
should happen in a couple of weeks. We are planning on a Thursday surgery, and
will stay over in Houston on Friday just to make sure there are no problems. 

New Eye
*******

Once Dr. Yu gets done, and after two weeks of recovery, I get to start work on
that paste-on eye they plan on putting into the depression where my old eye used
to live. Hopefully, that will happen during my semester break which ends around
Jan 20.  With any luck I will look much more normal then. 

If not, I still have my silly putty and cat's eye marble idea to work with, so
when I go back to school for Spring Semester, I should have 1.5 eyes. No matter
what, the new one will not move, it will just look better than my pirate's eye
patch now. (By the way, since my Computer Studies Department meeting was on
Halloween, I wore my pirate's hat and eye patch to the meeting. Sadly, no one
else thought to dress up at all. Sad when folks forget to celebrate our
season's best days.)

F4 Update
*********

While waiting around in M. D. Anderson, I gave the folks at the Collings
Foundation a call to get an update on my favorite airplane, their F4D. The
engine that has been being rebuilt out in California is running well now in a
test stand, but they want a few more runs to make sure nothing is leaking
before they ship it back to Houston.  Those old J-79 engines are rock solid
jets, with an incredible history powering our fighter force for many years. But
they are complex beasts and the folks who know how to keep them running are
getting harder to find. So, waiting until everything is just right is a wise
move. 

What that all means is that the bird will not be flying until probably before
the first of the year. Phooey!

Recording the flight
====================

I am starting to line up the logistics for the ride anyway. I will have a
Go-Pro camera mounted on my helmet, and there will be another one in the
cockpit over the pilot's shoulder filming the view out the front of the
wind-screen. I am also planning on taking a GPS recorder that will track where
we go in detail. Believe it or not, you can show a flight track on Google-Earth using
GPS data, and may pilots use these gadgets to look over where they flew. I
first saw one being used by a glider pilot who managed to fly for over six
hours hooking into thermals and winding his way up high enough to go find
another one before he finally decided to land. All with no motor! That is real
flying!

These Go-Pro cameras do a great job of filming the entire flight, including the
"tear-holes-in-the-sky" part where the bird will be doing a bit of playing a
real fighter jet (which, of course, it is). The F4 was the top fighter jet in
the world for many years, and they built over 5000 of them while I was working
at the plant.  I have taken lessons in doing all the basic aerobatic maneuvers,
so I expect to get a few in with the F4 under my control. At least a roll or
two, and maybe a split-S (roll the airplane upside down, then do a half loop
downward until you are level. Anything else, I will leave to the pilot to
explain, or just do while I hang on. We will pull more than a few "G"s doing
this, which can make some folks a bit queasy! I was ine with all of that when I
did my aerobatics training.

Actually, hanging on while gyrating through the sky is not an issue, You are
strapped in so tight, you can hardly move, and you are sitting on a ejection
seat capable of blasting you out of the ship (through the canopy if necessary)
and parachuting you back to earth. We do not plan on needing that, but I have
to be trained on "exit procedures" just in case. I did the same thing when I
took my own aerobatics lessons many years ago. 

To me, this is what flying is all about. None of that boring point A to point B
stuff. Enjoy the freedom of the sky! (Just do not fly into clouds unless
someone looking at radar tells you it is OK. Every cloud has an aluminum
lining, probably built by Boeing, and you do not want to run into one of
those!) We will pray for a clear sunny day for this adventure!

Whazzat?
********

My hearing is getting worse, and we do not know why. I have hearing aides now,
and it seems like I need then to hear things very well at all now. In my last
visit to my ENT, Dr. Scholl, we did a hearing test and basically found out my
left ear has shut down. If I crank up the volume on the hearing aide on that
side I barely hear anything, but others tell me they hear some kind of
feedback. Me, I cannot hear a thing which is really annoying. My right ear is
losing hearing as well, and I seem to need the hearing aide most of the time
now. All of this is kind of depressing, since losing hearing is not something I
want to see happen. Hopefully removing the bulk on my left side will help.

I did discover that when I yawn, I can occasionally hear things on my left
side. We are all convinced that the mechanics of my ears are fine, but there is
probably fluid building up behind my ear drum preventing it from moving. Dr.
Scholl does not want to do the standard fix, which involves poking a small hole
in the ear drum and putting in a tube to drain the extra fluid. I have had so
much radiation in that area, he is afraid the hole will not heal, and I could
get a fungus build up in my inner ear that would be worse than the problems I
am having now!

What a mess. The longer all this goes, the more interesting things I have to
contend with. Oh well, I am still upright, and that is what counts most!

More Prayers
************

Cheryl and I are in a small group from our Church who meet every couple of
weeks for study and just to visit. It seems all of us are going through
problems of one kind or another, but know what? All of us pray for each other,
and God seems to be listening. We all seem to be getting through the trauma of
life's adventures. We help each other, and we all know that the prayers we get
from other folks, including those reading this blog are helping as well. Thank
you again for all of your support. It surely helps me, and more important to
me, it helps my care-giver, Cheryl, who puts an incredible amount of energy and
love into my care through all of this! I doubt I would be doing anywhere as
well as I am without her support.







