This Screwed Up World
#####################

:Date: 2015-04-14
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories

This morning I got up as I usually do, and switched on HLN to see what was
going on in the world today. Yesterday was pretty bad, with the shooting at a
Community College in North Carolina, and another police-related shooting in
Arizona consuming most of the air-time. There was also a story about some
parents who let their kids walk a mile home, they were being charged with child
endangerment. Wow!

Is the world more screwed-up today? It sure seems like it is, but is it really?

Becoming a Walker
*****************

When I was a kid, I was very independent. My mother worked in the Pentagon, and
my dad, well, he was mostly unemployed and spent a lot of time in a local bar,
where he worked as a cook and bar tender on occasion, or where he sat as a
customer on other occasions.

During the summer before I started school at Virginia Tech, he got me a job in
his favorite bar as a dish washer so I could earn a bit of the money I needed
to pay for that first term!

My sisters and I turned into what some folks call "latch-key" kids. We had keys
to our home, and we could come home from school and let ourselves in until mom
showed up after work!

I lived in Falls Church, Virginia for most of my time in public schools. The
Falls Church school system was too small to have a fleet of school buses.
Instead, the city contracted with the Arnold Bus Line, which provided public
transportation in the area and students could ride the city buses to school.
Arnold even ran special lines through the local neighborhoods to pick kids up.
It worked quite well, and only cost a dime each way. That was cheap enough that
even us poor kids could ride the bus to school. I even got to be friends with
one of the bus drivers, Mr. Chase! More on him later.

However, I grew up following my mom around, and she was a very fast walker.
When you work in the Pentagon, you have a lot of ground to cover to get places,
and following her around that building was one of my favorite things to do when
I was a kid. All the cool people, offices, stores, could consume an entire day
if needed. So I learned to explore and walk really fast.

That meant that on occasions, I would walk to school. My first schools were only
a few blocks away, and walking to those was no big deal. My Junior/Senior High
School was over a mile away, but even that was no big deal, so I walked there
as well.

Shoot, I walked everywhere! With no fear that I was being stalked by weird
folks intending to do me harm. MY parents walked everywhere, and no one thought
anything was wrong with that! Good exercise, after all!

Exploring The D. C. Area
************************

I was known to walk over eight-ten miles on occasion. That meant I could get to
the Smithsonian if I did not have bus fare, I could get to the Pentagon to see
my mom, I could get to National Airport to watch airplanes fly. Sure it took a
while to do, but it was no big deal for a fast walker like me. 

When I was about eight years old, my dad came up with a way to get me an
allowance when the family really did not have enough money for that. He got me
a paper route delivering the Washington Daily News, which was a light
newspaper. I delivered papers to around 30 homes in my neighborhood and
earned some spending money. I never really liked that job, and I found out I was a lousy
salesman, but I did enjoy the cash.

When riding the bus home from school, if you forgot to get off of the bus, its
final stop was 10th and F street in D.C. That was right in front of the Ford
Theater where Lincoln was shot, and right by the house where he died. I would
get off of the bus, walk up the stairs into the house and check to make sure
the bed where Lincoln died was still there, then head down F Street to the
Smithsonian. I was doing this from the time I was eight years old. Yikes, I am
still here to tell the tale! In today's world I would have vanished without a
trace, or so we are told!

Usually, the fare from Falls Church to Rosslyn, Virginia, at the foot of Key
Bridge which crossed the Potomac River into Georgetown, was a Quarter. If you
wanted to ride into D. C., it cost another Nickel. After I got to be friends
with the afternoon bus driver, Mr. Chase, he would let me ride all the way to
the end for free, other drivers made me pay that extra Nickel, and I usually
could do that!

Mr. Chase even gave me a punch and a bus transfer ticket book and taught me how
to transfer from one bus to another one if I wanted to get somewhere else in
D.C. Boy! I am sure he would have been arrested today for that! I managed to
ride the bus all the way to Rockville, Maryland, to visit my cousins who lived
there!

The walk from the last bus stop to the Smithsonian was interesting, especially
on Saturday Mornings. (I had to pay full fare to go there on a Saturday, Mr.
Chase was not working that day!) After crossing Pennsylvania Avenue, I went
between two huge buildings on the last block before the Museum of Natural
History that was my first Smithsonian stop.

On the right side of that block was the Infernal Revenue Service, aka IRS. That
building was kind of boring, full of tax collectors.

But the building on the other side was cool, that was the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the FBI! Way cool! On Saturdays, they ran a public tour of the
building, and I could join the crowd and follow along. The last stop on that
tour was in the basement where that had a shooting range. Agents would bring
out old Tommy-Guns from the Prohibition Era and blast away for the
entertainment of the crowd

..  image:: images/TommyGun.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Tommy Gub Shooting

Sorry, I could not resist putting up that "shot"!

I would explore the museum buildings for several hours and get back up to the
bus stop for my ride back home. During the week, I could make it back home
before my mom got home from work. Great fun for an independent kid, and a great
way to get involved with learning new things! The Smithsonian was full of
things that could capture your imagination, and inspire a career!

All of my friends did almost the same thing. I do not recall any of them
wandering downtown to the Smithsonian like I did, but I bet a few did. The
point was that we had no fear, our parents either trusted us in this, or were
oblivious to what was going on, or never even knew! We grew up, often on our
own!

The Information Age
*******************

The news was not full of shootings, rapes, or kidnappings. You know, the daily
stuff we are bombarded with on TV, today. So, our minds were more at peace. We
did not view the world as an evil, unsafe place, but a place to be explored and
enjoyed. We all knew there was evil in the world, our parents survived World
War II, where the ultimate in evil was on display, and we fought to put that
evil down! MY generation learned a lesson about service to our fellow man by
living through those times.

Then came TV and suddenly, we were much more aware of all the evil that
surrounded us. The newspaper had news that was days old, so we read it, but it
was not immediately a concern. It was about history, and that was over. We
might be interested in reading about history, and maybe learning something from
it, but we did not really have to act on it. This news was "cold".

TV changed that. We now had news about things going on today, hours ago. It was
still history to us, but it was "warm". The events being reported might even be
live. I watched Kennedy being driven down Pennsylvania Avenue, the same street
I crossed almost daily, as his funeral procession would past the White House on
its way to Arlington Cemetery. I sat on the floor in my home watching that on
TV. I had seen him in person in a motorcade with John Glenn, on the same street,
when they let all of us out of school to go to Glenn's parade after he orbited
the Earth for the first time.

TV news was mostly local, but there was also global news to see. That news was
not so immediate, but it was real enough to make us aware that there was still
a lot of evil around. Maybe, we should not be so trusting of our fellow man!

Finally, we got the Internet. Information is fast, global, and overwhelming! It
was "white hot". Suddenly we are in the middle of events all over the world,
and every crazy person on the planet gets their "15 minutes of Fame" now. All
the new services use this magical tool to stream their live video to us on all
of our devices: phones, tablets, Monitors, and even those TV sets we glue
ourselves to.

News now impacts us almost second by second. We are in the middle of every
disaster that happens, anywhere in the world! It has to affect our thinking and
our behavior!

I am convinced the world is not that much crazier than it was when I grew up,
we just know way too much about it now, thanks to the Internet!

Perhaps we need to step back and ask ourselves if we want to live in a world of
fear, where every person we see is some crazy about to pull out a gun and shoot
someone. Perhaps that person is a kind soul having a bad day, and you could be
a ray of hope to that person. 

Sad to say, many (most) of us seem to think the worst, so we are prepared for
it. We fear for our kids, ourselves, and our neighbors. We are forgetting how
to trust. Those few crazies poison everyone, and we end up living in a world
full of fear. Sad!

After finishing the news this morning, I cannot say which way today will go. I
still might need to walk into a room full of armed students if our local
"politicians" have their way. Should I think the best of those students, or
prepare for the crazy one? 

I really do not know the answer!
