HearPhones
##########

:Date: 2017-10-16
:Category: life
:Tags: Cancer

A while back, I started hearing (!) about a new product from Bose. This is a
company well respected for building quality sound systems. They sell radios,
speaker systems and all sorts of stuff to make enjoying TV and music nice. I
have one of their Bluetooth speaker systems in my workshop, where it latches onto my
phone when I step inside and I can play music when I am working. Nice

The new product is a weird gadget that looks like this:

..  image:: images/HearPhones.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 350
    :alt: Bose Hear Phones

This crazy  thing fits around your neck, and those weird gadgets at the end of
rubber tubes are baby speakers, one for each ear.  The funny rubber hook shaped
gizmos on each side help keep the speakers in your ears.
 
In that neck ring is a bunch of fancy electronics and batteries. The batteries
in this thing are recharged using my iPhone charger, and they last about 10
hours.
 
Hearing Issues
**************
 
As Dr. Lai at M.D. Anderson said after my surgery there:

    We kinda eradicated the eustacian tube in there!

What he meant to say was that the tube that runs from behind my ear drum into
my sinus area, allowing fluid that builds up back there to drain away, was gone
in my left ear. Fluid is still building up, but it cannot escape. If nothing is
done, my hearing on that side evaporates. 

I have been having Dr Scholl put a small plastic tube into my ear drum to drain
the fluid, and that helps. But it only lasts a while. As the tube clogs up
my hearing varies from "I can just about hear", to "I can't hear a thing"!  

Worse yet, old age is hurting the hearing on my right side as well.

The result is obvious!

    I don't her so good

Hearing Aides
*************

Dr. Scholl had me get a pair of standard hearing aides, and those things cost
$4000. Fortunately, my health plan covered them, but I do not now if I can
replace them, and , if so, how long before I can do that.

I was starting to get annoyed with them. They can be adjusted, just not by me.
If I ma`ke an appointment with the clinic where I got them, they can make one
louder than the other, which helps me hear in my left ear, while amplifying the
right at the same time. 

The problem with this setup is that I can not get the left side loud enough to
really hear out of that side, except right after Dr. Scholl puts in a new tube.

Slowly, my left ear fades from usefulness.

New Hearing Aides
*****************

The latest hearing aides work better, and some come with iPhone apps to let you
play around with the balance at home. Much nicer, but another pair of those
will cost around $4000 again. I was just about to try some of those, when the
Bose product showed up.

And it is a hot seller!. 

HearPhones
**********

Bose makes a lot of fancy headphones for music lovers, and some that cancel out
noise or even muffle it. You see folks wearing these on airplanes so they do
not need to listen to my old Chief Scientist I used to work with, Hans Von
Ohain's invention - the jet engine. (You did not know I worked with the inventor
of the jet engine? You should dig nto my old blog postings!)

All of those headphones are designed to work with your music source, usually a
phone. (Gee, I thought phones were for making calls to other human beings.
These days, most folks text with their phones, then play games, update
Facebook,  or listen to music the rest of their time. Until they go to sleep!)

The new Bose gadgets are called "HearPhones" and are designed to help people
hear better. They are not just for the hard of hearing, they also improve your
ability to hear conversations in a noisy room. They can be used to listen to
TV, or music as well.They do not need a phone, since they have their own
microphones to pick up sounds, and they can greatly improve the quality of the
sound you end up hearing.

The Bose App
************

Bose has an iPhone (and others) app that lets you control how this thing works.
You can adju things so it focuses on sound straight in front of you, (which I
use when teaching), or it can pick up sounds in a wide arc around you in a
group setting. In fact, it supports four customizable "zones" you can tune to
your liking.

These gadgets cost $500, and I was hearing that everyone who had a set loved
them.

Only problem was that they were no where to be found. I tried Best Buy, and two
Bose stores near me, and no one had a set to try out. I did not feel like
spending that much money, sight unseen, before actually holding a set and
hearing it work.

San Marcos Outlet Mall
**********************

Cheryl and I occasionally go to San Marcos to the Outlet Mall there to buy
clothes. A few weeks ago, Cheryl needed a few new outfits, so we headed to her
favorite place there, Chicos. A few doors down was one of the Bose outlet
stores.

After we finished at Chicos, we walked over to the Bose store. I intended to
ask them when they expected to see these critters. Wonder of Wonders, they had
a real set in the store. It had been returned by someone who wanted a less
expensive set, and they decided to keep the thing for demonstrating. It was not
even on display.

The clerk let me try them on, and he set up an iPad to control it. I put them
on and cold hear Cheryl from some distance away. That was great. Usually, even
with my hearing aides, I need to be fairly close to someone to make out what
they are saying.

I decided I did want a set, but I had to order the thing, since they were not
in stock. It would probably take a week to get them.

Oh well! I placed the order, and paid for the them with my credit card.

Bose EMail
**********

The next day, with a receipt in hand saying everything was cool, I got an email
from Bose telling me that my card had been declined. Funny, it worked when I
paid for the things, and there was no reason that there should have been a
problem.

I called the next day to see what was up. The person on the phone told me the
same story, and asked if I wanted to place the order again. I was a bit
suspicious about this whole thing, but I called Bose directly, and did not use
the number on the email message, just in case. Still, I was not going to give
out my card number again, so I told the person to run the card again and see
what happened. 

No problem, just like when I placed the order. A bit embarrassed by the
situation, the Bose person upgraded my order to next day Air, and I had a set
the very next morning. 

Sometimes it pays to press for better service, and not let them tell you what
to do.

Hearing Again
*************

Now I have much better control of my hearing. Things are not perfect, but much
improved. That is, as long as I am willing to look a bit weird when wearing
these things.

The HearPhones come with three sets of attachments for folks with different
sized ears. I have tried all three before finding a set that seems to fit
right. The fitting is a bit finicky. These devices sample the sound outside,
then inside your ear and process both to make the sound better. If the fitting
is not right, they can shit down completely. When I was trying the ear
adapters that were not the right size, I occasionally had everything go quite.

The biggest of them is what I landed on, and things are much better now.

Classroom Use
=============

I have worn them in several of my classes, and I can hear student asking
questions much better. I can even hear them sleeping (if they snore), but I
wake them up in those cases. Yuk, Yuk!

I am also able to her the radio in my truck at a much lower volume, and I can
hear the TV much lower as well. 

What is fun is playing with the Bass and Treble settings. If I turn the Treble
all the way up, students sound like Micky Mouse. If I turn that down, and the
Bass all the way up, they all sound like James Earl Jones (This is CNN, for
those old enough to remember that).

What was hilarious what what I discovered this afternoon.

I walked across my yard to go to the mail box and heard every blade of grass
crunch as I walked on it. Never heard such a thing. I thought I was walking on
Rice Crispies!

I also heard a bird in the top of a tree, and I thought it was on my shoulder.

I probably had the volume adjusted way too high, but i did not have my phone in
my pocket, so that was it, I had to hear things they way they were set.

Next Up
*******

The next time I go visit Dr. Scholl, we are going to play with these things in
his office. He had heard of them, but never actually saw a set. Maybe I cheated
his business out of a new pair of hearing aides, but in the end, these things
make my life better.

I am glad I spent the $500 for them.

Wait, I hear a bird in the tree, three houses away. I better go check on him!



