Shake Rattle and Roll
#####################

:author: Roie Black
:date: 2014-03-10
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer
:Title: Shake Rattle and Roll

Just not in that order
**********************

Yesterday, Cheryl and I did the normal Spring trick, We overslept and failed to
Spring forward. Well, Cheryl overslept, I woke up just fine and thought the
clocks were right and did not check on her until it was too late to make our
normal first service at church, so we went a bit late ans visited with our
usual crowd as they left the first service. At least those who did wake up on
time.

We got home in time to pack up for our mini-trip to Houston for the start of
the second big round of Mega Chemotherapy at M. D. Andersen. M. stands for
Murphy, did not know that until we were leaving after the adventure was over
and we saw a sign on the exit road. Hmmm.  

Roll
****

Anyway, the Roll part of the adventure is the drive over to Houston. With the
clock pushed back, we managed the trip in daylight, which I liked. I also liked
the fact that I have no vision issues now, so I drove my fair share, at least a
goodly chunk to la Grange, a nice little town half way or so over. We stopped
there for a drink/snack. I got a drink, and Cheryl said she was going to get
some Cheetos only to come back with a huge Cinnamon bun, fresh baked! I guess I
know where we will be stopping on future trips!. Then to top it off, as we
drove through town, an old car dealership has two Sally McMillian MG-B TC cars
in the showroom windows. She has been wanting one of those forever, so I guess
I will have to wander back there and see if I can wrangle (that is how they do
it in Texas) one of them away from that place soon!

We stopped at a Pannera's in Katy, Texas for Dinner about 20 minutes from our
Hotel for Dinner how she could eat after that bun, I will never know), and I
managed to eat a bowl of chicken and wild rice soup - bland enough to get past
my mangled mouth. Cheryl managed part of a chicked pasta (see, if you had not
started with desert!)

We got to a much nicer La Quinta, right next to a MicroCenter, but too late for
me to do any shopping! phooey, oh well, maybe next time. The only problem with
the room was that it was right next to the Interstate and a bit noisy, but very
nice otherwise. I guess we have elevated our tastes to La Quinta level for now.

We had a nice night, and a nice breakfast, way too early for me at 6am, the
next morning, then headed off for about a 15 minute drive to M.D. Anderson. We
even found a quicker way into the parking garage, and made the appointment for
the vampire feeding in plenty of time.  

Shake
*****

The next part of the adventure stated with the requisite feeding of the
vampires. The nurse laid out four vials - FOUR! I looked at her and said
"hungery, are we?" She just smiled and stuck me with the needle! I said "Ouch"
and glared at her", She did her thing and did not even give me a cute bandage
with happy faces on it, just a crumby couple of strips of tape. When I pulled
them off later I even had a bruise. She is off of my Christmas card list! Four
vials, (mutter, mutter...)

We had plenty of time to wander up to the tenth floor to visit with Dr. Kies,
the Oncologist in charge of mu Chemo plan. We signed in and were directed to
the "Elderberry Waiting Room". Shoot, No wine anywhere in sight! We were about
45 minutes early, but had hardly even got settled down in front of our favorite
fish tank when a nurse called us back in and we wandered into a room where they
stole a few of my "vitals". (I always bring a bunch with me, I just know they
will want some). Turns out I have lost about 11 pounds since I started this
whole adventure three weeks ago. That is a lot, but it did not surprise me
given the mouth issues I have been living with.

We went over everything, all the drugs I had been given in Austin, new side
effects I was having and how the drugs were doing, all that stuff. Then she
directed us to another waiting room to wait for the doctor.

Dr. Keis cam in about 20 minutes early! Wow! He looked me over and talked about
all the side effects as well. He was a bit surprised at how hard I had been
hit, but very pleased with how well my vision had improved. The rash was about
normal, the vision very good, the fatigue a bit too much. All in all, the plan
was going well, but he did think he would dial down the second round a bit, and
maybe not add in the day eight treatment. He would decide that after seeing how
today's treatment went later in the week. The current plan is to do the full
three chemical dose today, get the white-blood-cell booster tomorrow, then
assess things toward the end of the week and decide about day eight. After
three weks, we will re-image and see how everything worked before deciding what
to do next. He is feeling pretty optimistic, which is very encouraging!

We both left the meeting feeling pretty good. Were we shaking yet, Nope, not
yet!  

..  image:: images/Tree.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Infusion Tree
    :width: 600


We were a bit early for our Chemo treatment, but we took the mini-bus ride over
to the Infusion-center anyway, and stopped in their cafe for a smoothie/more
breakfast before heading up. I did not realize how far away the center was nor
how big that building was until I spotted it looking through a window from the
main building. Boy is this complex huge!

Once we were in the Infusion Center on the eighth floor, they gave us one of
those vibrating gizmos you get in fancy restaurants so you can wander to the
bar before dinner, but I could not find the bar. Just a bunch of tables with
puzzles on then with way too many missing pieces. Why do they do that? And, who
steals the pieces? Are these people just mean, or what? It is bad enough to
have to wait for your treatment, but a puzzle you cannot solve - phooey! I know
there were at least three missing pieces on the one I sat in front of until my
buzzer went off! 

..  image:: images/InfusionHall.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Infusion hallway
    :width: 600


My cute little cubicle was much like the previous one only switched around so
everything was reversed. That meant I had to be plugged into on my right arm
this time, when the vampire got fed. "Double-Cheese Burger" (Sorry, too many
Papa Johm commercials on TV) 

..  image:: images/InfusionRoom.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Infusion room
    :width: 600


The IV stick was it's usual annoying thing. I waited a few seconds before doing
my normal "OW" thing, just to make sure they knew I was awake. Cheryl told me
to breath, which I was doing, sort of! I am allergic to rusty nails!  Bebedryl

They started off around 9:30am with the normal nite-nite medicine, but it did
not really seem to put me out as well as it did last time. I got drowsy but not
out like a light. I seem to remember watching Cheryl search for something on
television, and it took quite a while for the chemo drug to show up.

The original order did not cover the full treatment they were going to do, and
Cheryl was all over making sure they knew that. The nurse called up to confirm
the real orders were coming and cleared everything up but it still took the
pharmacy quite a while to get the drugs delivered.So the actual chemo did not
start until about an hour after we really started.  

Cetuximab
=========

This is the magic drug again, But the one that has the most side effects
(including making my hair fall out) Oh well, good thing I am here for this one.
Dr. Keis decided to back down a bit on the dosage of this one, so they had to
send back the original bag to the pharmacy. I fell asleep while waiting for the
new bag to arrive, and it was the same one as the first one, so we waited again
until they got the right dose. By then it was time for lunch, so Cheryl ordered
for me and id arrived as the new bag arrived.  

Lunch
=====

While that drug was percolating in we ate my lunch. Cheryl ate what I could
not. We had tuna, yoghurt, cookies, Boost, all stuff either I could eat, or
Cheryl could finish off, and it all was done about the time the chemo bag was
done. Great timing.  

Magnesium
=========

They startred flushing the chemo IV out and I started to get cold, so they gave
me another warm blanket. Everything seemed OK, so they stated the next IV bag,
which was magnesium, which helps with side effects from the last drug (bad
stuff goes in, good stuff goos in, hopefully it all works our in the end!)
Then, BOOM!  

SHAKES!!!
=========

I stated to get cold again. I was just starting to enjoy the warm blanket when
a wave of shivers washed over me, then another one and another, and I got cold
again. Cheryl saw me shake and asked for another blanket. That helped for a
minute, but the shaking got worse and worse. I could control it a bit if I
pushed on the end of the bed with my feet, but basically, I was shaking
uncontrollably and the whole bed was shaking. So was Cheryl! We called for the
nurse, who tried to get my temperature, and my heart rate, but she was having
problems doing those. She hooked me up for blood pressure and it was a bit
high, but the heart was fine, temperature was unreadable because I could not
hold my mouth closed well enough. Finally she called for a doctor.

AM I feeling any pain? NO! DO I have any itching? NO! Am I having trouble
breathing? OF COURSE I AM, DO YOU KNOW HOW MUCH WORK IT TAKES TO SHAKE THIS
HARD?!!! I am just cold! More blankets, More machines trying to read my
temperature. They get one reading around 93, but no one trusts that. They
decide to try more Benedryl. Perhaps I will sleep through the cold. The last
time I was this cold was during surgery, so maybe they are right. Anyway,
eventually, the shaking stops. The doctor has called Dr. Keis to confirm that
this is a known side effect of the chemo drugs, so there is no real danger in
any of this unless something really new happens.

Cheryl was clearly frightened by all of this, but she keep the nurses and
doctors on their toes and makes sure they talk to Dr. Keis. Me, I was feeling
no pain except when I bang into something on the bed, so I was not too worried,
except that it did occur to me that they might want to keep me overnight to
make sure nothing weird was going on.

They did decide to move up the Zofphran treatment since it helps with side
effects.  

More Benedryl
=============

So I get to sleep a bit more to help with all of this. Nite, nite!  

Zophran
=======

More side effect treatments meds go in next for about a half hour. Drip, drip,
drip!  

Carboplatin
===========

The last chemo drug of the day takes about another hour and we are done around
5pm. Cheryl has managed to get quite a bid of scrap-booking done during the
ordeal (after she calmed down after being scared to death by my shaking
adventure - bless her) 

Dinner and a Shake
==================

We left the Infusion Center and headed to the main building where we had
dinner. I had a huge fruit smoothie, Cheryl had a nice dinner, then we headed
out to the garage for our last adventure, the shake part

We get a plastic chip when you pull into the garage and it has a chip in it
that triggers the machine that you pay with a credit card when you leave. When
Cheryl tried to pay, the chip just fell through the machine and would not let
her pay. She tried it twice on one machine, then again on another machine. We
were going to SHAKE the machine, but decided against it since when we grew up
the machine would have gone TILT.

So, we drove to the parking gate, stuck the chip in the machine, and, wonder of
wonders, the gate opened up! We must have been they 10,000,000th customers and
got a get out for free chip!

What a nice day!  

More Rolling
============

So, we head back to Austin!

My phone rings, and it is my Big, Little Sister, Connie, still snowed in back
in D.C. I chat for a short while, since the Benedryl is starting to take over
again and hand her off for a short 55 minute chat with Cheryl, while I fall
back into LA-LA land.

Next thing I know, we are pulling into our local HEB grocery store to drop off
my new prescription and we are home from our adventure!  

Post-script
===========

So far, I am feeling pretty good, but Cheryl seems to be coming down with
something. Hopefully that is just stress related. I have to keep reminding
myself how hard this all really is on her. She just got back this morning from
picking up that prescription she dropped off last night as I am finishing up
this post I started at 4am last night, after waking up in the middle of the
night. I did sleep most of yesterday away, after all!

So much for the Shake, Rattle, and Roll, Adventure! Hope you enjoyed it as much
as we did! 


