Veteran's Day: Andy's Story
###########################

:Date: 2014-11-11
:Category: Life
:Tags: Veterans

..  image:: images/Evelyn_and_Andy.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Andy's Pilot Photo

As many of you probably know by reading some on my blogs, my second dad was
Andy Tarapchak, who served this nation as a bomber pilot during WWII. Sadly, he
died last year, living in a nursing home with many other vets from that great
war.

After he died, his nephew sent me a folder with Andy's military records,
detailing the missions he flew and the awards he won. Andy was done with all of
that, and so affected by his experiences, I do not think he ever flew again.
But the war was always on his mind, and he told me countless stories about his
experiences. I fully believe it was Andy who sparked my love of aviation and
started me on my path into the USAF. 

One of the papers in Andy's folder is this article he wrote for a newsletter
published by members of his unit during the war. It seems fitting to publish
this today, in memory of an American Hero.

MY EXPERIENCES IN THE 559TH
***************************
BY
==
ANDY TARAPCHAK
==============

We were sent to Savannah,Georgia to pick up a plane and fly the Southern route
to England. In the spring of 1944, flooding hit Kansas and delivery of B-26s
from that plant was delayed.

We were sent by train to Camp Kilmer, N.J. and in a few days we were on an
English troop ship, The HMS Andes, and on our way to Liverpool. We went alone,
as the troop ship could outrun the German subs.

After 3 1/2 days we landed at Liverpool but then were immediately sent to a
personnel depot south of Liverpool. We spent a few days at the depot and then
were sent to Northern Ireland to a combat training field. After about two weeks
at the school, we were sent to Chipping Ongar to the 387th Bomb Group.

My crew consisted of Edward Ochen, Copilot; Joseph Tverdak,
Navigator/bombardier; George Cardinale, Engineer; Frank Miccuilli, Raidioman;
Jake Yungling, Tail gunner.

Here are the incidents I remember:

When we stepped out of the C-47 at the Air Base in Northern Ireland, we were met
by an Air Corps Sergeant. He had a pickup truck and was assigned to take us to
our quarters. He explained that the Air Base was huge and there was no means of
transportation on the base. He stated that we would all need bicycles to get
around. He had bikes either for sale or for rent. We all opted to rent the
bikes. The Sergeant was right in that we needed bikes to get around on the
base. After the two weeks' training, we were scheduled to depart by C-47 and
join the 387th Bomb Group at Chipping Ongar.

The same Air Corps Sergeant was there to retrieve the rental bikes. He then
explained that we would need a bike at the base in England because of the same
reasons. The bikes were no longer for rent so he informed us he would give us a
good deal on purchasing bikes as all of his were now used. We all agreed and we
gave him the price he asked. There was one hitch - the bikes could not go on
the same plane we were assigned. He said they would be shipped by cargo plane
at a later date. You guessed it! We never did receive the bikes. The Sergeant
must have sold and resold those bikes at least 20 times over and no one ever
received them.

By the way, we did not need bikes to get around at any of the other bases, as
transportation was always furnished by the 387th.

At Chipping Ongar we lived in Quonset huts. The food was typical English
Food. 

This was our first experience with English Pubs, as every day at 1800 hours a
truck would leave the 559th area and head for the pub at Chipping Ongar. It was
our first taste of warm beer.

Chipping Ongar was near Chelmsford, which in turn was 28 miles NE of London.
This was the time the Germans first started using the V-1 bombs. These were the
"putt-putt" pilotless bombs aimed at London. If the wind wasn't exactly right,
the V-1s drifted over Chipping Ongar. When we were not flying, we would listen
for the V-1s and if the engine cut off, it was time to duck for cover.

Most of the missions flown out of Chipping Ongar were in support of the ground
troops, as this was shortly after D-Day.

We then moved to Stoney Cross which was near Southhampton, England, in
preparation for night flying. Things broke loose in Normandy so we never did
fly any night missions.

From Stoney Cross we then moved to a temporary air base on the coast of
Normandy. It was a former American Fighter base or night-fighter base, with a
pierced-steel plank runway. Flying off a runway of this type was a real risk
for a fully loaded B-26. After the first takeoff, the copilot and I learned what had
to be done to get any real airspeed. We both stood on the brakes and I pushed
the throttles full forward until the plane shuddered. We then released the
brakes ans started takeoff. At the far end of the runway we still didn't have
enough flying speed so all we could do was lift up the wheels. We staggered
off the runway and fortunately we were on the edge of the coastline on the
English Channel. Once we crossed the cliff, we eased the plane's nose forward
and had about 200 feet above the waterline to pick up airspeed and begin to
fly.

After things broke loose on the ground, we then moved to Chateaudun. This was a
former German bomber base. All the buildings were destroyed, but the runways
were paved and only had to be repaired to be used again.

I remember bombs and ammunition were scattered all over the place when the
Germans left. Some of the guys used German bazookas to hunt jackrabbits.
Fortunately, their aim wasn't very good, as none of the German bombs ever let
loose.

As things moved rapidly on the ground, we then moved to St. Quentin in  NE
France. It was late in the fall of 1944 and an early winter was starting to set
in. We lived there in tents over the winter and from what I read, it was the
coldest winter on record.

When we arrived at the base in St. Quentin, we learned we would be rationed to
one bucket of coal per day per tent. The first thing we did, as there were four
of us in one tent, was to requisition a weapons carrier and head out to barter
with the natives. We pooled our rations and away we went. Cigarettes, soap and
candy were worth their weight in gold, so in no time we had a weapons carrier
loaded with coke (manufactured from compresses burning charcoal) and about six
bottles of champagne. The coke, plus the rationed coal, lasted the whole
winter.

Here are some things I remember about St. Quentin:

The Quartermaster apparently ran out of food. For about two weeks all we had
for breakfast was "hunks" of cheddar cheese and cold lemonade. No powdered
eggs, milk, bread or anything except cheese and lemonade. For supper, we had
hamburger and spinach and that was it, for two weeks.

I do remember one plane accident that resulted in all those deaths, but I won't
go into that (Note: Andy did tell me that story on one of my visits, and I will
tell it later). 

Here are two incidents I remember about flying missions out of St. Quentin:

The "Battle of the Bulge" started on 17 December 44. As I've said before, the
winter of 1944/45 was the coldest ever in Europe in the entire century. The fog
moved in on 17 December in the early hours of the morning. Everything in No.
France was socked in. The Allied ground troops caught hell in the first few
days of the "Bulge", and were screaming for help from the Air Corps. Nothing in
the entire 9th Air Force could move because of the fog. We in the 387th were
alerted for a mission to help the ground forces for six consecutive days, but we
couldn't take off. The fog was so thick you couldn't even see to taxi out.
Things got progressively worse, so for three or four days we just sat in the
planes, waiting for the word to "Go!". The High Command didn't care where we
were going to land on the return. Their main concern was for the planes to take
off and help the ground troops. Still, we couldn't move for six days.

Finally, on 23 Dec the fog lifted and it was clear as a bell. Everything the
9th AF had went into the air. Unfortunately, the Luftwaffe did the same, so all
hell broke loose. After the second day of clear weather, things settled down
for the bomber groups as the Luftwaffe lost so many planes and used up so much
fuel on the 23rd that they couldn't put much into the air after that. 

The second incident I remember at St. Quentin occurred about a month later. The
Group was flying two missions a day then. There was no problem in the AM
mission, but the PM mission really had a problem.

The ground was very cold so in the afternoon the air warmed up and formed a
layer of fog. Instead of typical fog, the layer formed over the area was 200
feet thick.

When the PM mission returned, they couldn't see the runway to land. The
operating section of the 387th went out to the landing end of the runway. They
fired flare pistols through the fog so the planes could line up with the runway
before going into the fog bank. Some of the planes were a little high and set
down too far down the runway. They couldn't stop, so they ran off the runway. For
those of us who did make it in, we waited in our tents to hear the sound of a
plane plowing into the field at the end of the runway.

From St. Quentin we moved to a base near Beck, Holland. This was a German
temporary fighter base and I can tell you that base had a composite runway that
was even worse than the one we had in Normandy.

Fortunately the war was coming to an end, so things weren't too bad. I left the
Group at Beck and was just one mission short of the 65 required for a 30-day
leave. 

I flew on a C-47 to a heavy bomber field near Manchester, England. The war in
Europe ended after a few days so I was at a B-24 base with little or no
priority to get back to the states. All the "heavies" were going back to the
States and then being sent to the Pacific. I spent almost 30 days waiting for a
plane there in Manchester. Finally, a B-24 came in with nothing but its regular
crew so I was able to get out on it as a passenger.

It took less than 24 hours to get back, with refueling stops in Iceland and
Newfoundland. We landed at Bradley Field in Connecticut. The next day I went to
Indiantown Gap, PA by train. They cut my orders there, which started with my 30
day leave. I was only about a hundred miles from home so my leave started
almost from home.

The war in the Pacific ended while I was on Leave. My orders were to report to
Greenville, NC for reassignment. All I wanted was to get out, as I had had
enough of the Service. They were discharging personnel on a point system. I had
more than enough points so I figured I would be out in no time.  

Well, they sent me to Del Rio, Texas for processing to be discharged. The base
in Del Rio closed before my processing was completed, so they sent everybody in
the Air Force that was going out to Hondo Field in San Angelo, Texas. 

Processing started all over again and the same thing happened at Hondo as at
Del Rio. The base closed and I was discharged.

From there they shipped me to an air base in Amarillo, Texas. Fortunately,
that was a permanent base and I was out of the Service in three days.

My home was in Johnstown, PA, so they sent me by train from Amarillo to
Johnstown. Needless to say, I was glad to get out.

(Andy moved to the Washington, D.C. area shortly afterward, with his beautiful
wife, Evelyn. They lived next door to my parents and since they had no
children, they became my second parents. Andy bought some land in Great Falls,
Virginia, and build his home in there practically by himself, getting help only
to dig the hole for the basement. Andy was a graduate of Penn State University,
and was an executive at Washington Gas Light Company in Washingotn, D.VC., He
retired from there in 1985 after 40 years with the company. He was always active
in the 387th Bomb Squadron Association.) 

The missing story
*****************

When I visited Andy in his later years, he was always watching the History
Channel, and talking about the war with his veteran friends in the home. He
told me the story he left out of his article. It really helps you realize how
bad things were in those days, and what each and every crewman knew might happen each time they stepped into their planes.

After a mission that was especially hard, with many ships being shot down by
German fighters, Andy managed to get his badly shot up bomber back to the base
at St. Quentin. After Andy and his crew got out, they saw another ship approach
the field, also badly shot up. This plane was so badly damaged, it was not able
to drop it's bombs, so it was trying to land fully loaded with injured crewmen
on board. The plane hit the ground, the landing gear collapsed and the plane
slid to a stop, smoking from the damage.

Rescue trucks, and many on foot, Andy included, started running toward the
plane to try to get the crew out. Before any of them could reach the ship, the
plane and all the bombs on board exploded, killing the entire crew, and several
of Andy's friends who were running to the ship to help. Andy told that story,
and it was obvious he felt badly that they had not been able to save those
brave men. 


From the President
==================

Also in his folder was a copy of a letter Andy received from President Harry
Truman:

To you who answered the call of your country and served in its Armed Forces to
bring about the total defeat of the enemy, I extend the heartfelt thanks of a
grateful Nation. As one of the Nation's finest, you undertook the most severe
task one can be called upon to perform. Because you demonstrated the fortitude,
resourcefulness and calm judgement necessary to carry out that task, we now
look to you for leadership and example in further exalting our country in
peace.

Signed: Harry Truman

Thanks to my "second parents"
*****************************

Andy! Thank you for the influence you and Evelyn had on me, and my family for
all those years. I treasure your guidance in how to live my life, and your
great friendship for over 65 years of my life. I miss you and Evelyn each and
every day.

God Bless this great Country, and all those who have served in the past, and
continue to serve today. This is our day to honor you all.

Respectively,

Roie R. Black
Major, USAF (Retired)

And proud of it!

