Memorial Day
############

:Date: 2016-05-31
:Category: Life
:Tags: Veterans, Stories

This is a day to remember those who gave everything to preserve
the freedom we all get to enjoy. Those we lost cannot share in this day. It is
our duty to enjoy it for them, and thank them for what they gave for us.

We owe a lot to far too many who have fought and died to preserve our freedom.
No where else on this planet is that message more clear than in the cemetery at
Omaha Beach in France. Cheryl and I visited that place on our Honeymoon trip,
and it was a sobering experience. 

..  image:: images/omaha_beach_american_war_cemetery.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: Omaha Beach
    :width: 500

Look closely, you can see the fields covered in crosses where those who died
trying to take the beach are resting. The French do an amazing job of
protecting this place.

Who are these people, who feel that freedom is worth the price they ended up
paying?

Those who fight on the front lines of a battlefield are special people. They
get up each day knowing it might be their last. Still, they head out to do the
job they trained to do. They fight down the fear they surely must feel, and
face an enemy who would take their freedom away. We must pray for them, and
hope they succeed.

Some are opposed to this kind of confrontation. They say we should not fight. I
am one of those who think such an approach to our enemies is naive. All you
have to do it look into history, and recent events, to see what that approach
can lead to. Would you rather live in a world led by people like Hitler,
Stalin, or ISIS? Those folks feel that they are the only ones worthy of living
in freedom, everyone else should be subservient to their rule.

Sorry, I side with the fighters, and that is why I served this country. To help
preserve our freedom, and our way of life.

What about you, what are you willing to do to achieve that goal?

Sadly, many folks never give that a thought, except on a day like today, when
that topic is pushed in front of them. It is not part of their day to day
lives. Instead, they rely, silently, on the others who will fight for them.
Often they never even say thank you. I am hugely happy when I hear someone
thank a veteran for their service. We all should do that, every day.

Around Austin, many stores offer discounts to veterans. I show my retired USAF
ID card and often take advantage of that. Most of the time I get a thanks for
my service from the person checking me out. I am pretty sure that is not
required, and I I acknowledge that. We all should.

I tried to buy dinner for two young men in National Guard Uniforms sitting in a
restaurant one evening. They had just finished their training for the day.  The  
manager of that restaurant beat me to the punch. That is one restaurant I will
visit many more times!

I wore my Air Force Retired shirt yesterday and had several folks thank me for
my service. I never fought on the front lines, but I did what I do best. I
worked to advance the technologies our fighters use to defeat our enemies. I
was not risking my life as others do, but my contributions helped make sure
those who did fight would live to fight another day, and hopefully win the
battles they faced.

Andy Tarapchak
**************

I have written about my second dad, Andy Tarapchak, who flew over 70 missions
in a B-26 over France and Germany during World War II. Yesterday, I had
something happen that was a perfect compliment to Memorial Day.

Andy's co-pilot, Edward Ochen, also survived the war, and ended up having a
family back home. His daughter, Christine, a retired VA nurse, reached out as a
result of reading my blog yesterday. Her dad is still with us, one of far too
few left from that time. We exchanged emails about Andy and that war, and I
would love to hear some of her stories told by her dad as well.

In my post on Andy (`Andy's Story <veterans-day-andys-story.html>`_, I promised to
tell a story Andy related to me during one of my Christmas visits Here it is:

Bomber Missions
***************

Andy flew an airplane known as the "Widow Maker" in the war. It was a small
twin engine bomber, not one of our big heavy bombers like the venerable B-17 (which
I got to ride in as a birthday present from my wife, Cheryl, several years
ago!)

..  image:: images/B-26C.jpg
    :align: center
    :alt: B-26C
    :width: 500


I wore my B-17 flight jacket, bought after my ride, during my next visit to see
Andy, and that started him on this story:

Andy and his crew were stationed at St. Quentin in France after D-Day, and flew
missions over Belgium and Germany. On one mission, Andy's crew succeeded in
getting to the target and dropping their bombs and returning to the base. These
missions were always dangerous. The Luftwaffe attacked them, and the ground
guns fired flak into the air to bring them down. Facing all of that had to be
extremely hard on the crew, staring out the windows at the flak bursts, and
watching those fighters swarm around them. Each bomber had several gunners who
did their best to shoot at the fighters attacking them, all the while hoping
those fighters would miss when they fired their guns at their plane. After each
missions they counted the bullet holes on the airplane, then patched them up
for the next mission.

On this particular mission, several dozen bombers left the base, flew over
Germany to their target, and returned late in the day. Andy told of making the
landing and taxiing over to a parking spot in the grass. As his crew climbed out
of the ship, they saw another B-26, engine smoking from battle damage, approach
the field. That plane had been attacked by German ME-109 fighters, and was shot
up so badly, they could not release their bombs. Worse yet, the landing gear was
damaged as well. The plane was able to stay with the group and made it back to
the base. 

Andy and his crew were watching as the plane approached for the landing. The
landing gear was not fully down, and when the plane touched down, it collapsed,
and the plane slid to a halt in the grass. The plane was on fire, and those on
the ground started running toward it to try to put out the fire, and get the
crew out. But before they could do that, the bombs on board the ship exploded,
creating a huge crater in the ground and showering debris all over the field

The entire crew and several on the ground were all killed in that explosion.
Andy remembered running in the direction of the plane, but he was far enough
away that he survived the blast. Still he watched as all those men died in
service to this country. They were friends he knew well, and it obviously hit
him hard. Like many who survived the war, such memories made it very hard for
them to talk about their war experiences. I was lucky enough to hear a story
Andy kept buried for most of his life.


Stories like that were told by many of those airmen. Far too many! In
World War I, a pilot's life expectancy in air combat was measured in days.
Fortunately, during World War II, that time was much longer, but still,
thousands lost their lives in air combat missions. War is brutal, never forget
that! We all must do our part to make the price of war far too high for any
rational person to consider. We must also be prepared to deal with the
irrational people who will wage war nonetheless!

Remember the Fallen, Thank the Living
*************************************

I have met many veterans of WWII, many of them amazing people. I try to make
sure they know their sacrifices are appreciated. There are others who should be
thanked as well, even though they never wore a uniform. My mother dedicated 31
years of her life to working in the War Department after Pearl Harbor, then for
the U.S. Army in the Pentagon. Many others did the same back then, we mobilized
an entire nation to support those who fought! Many of the stories I remember
most were told by men who served in that war, and were working with my mother
in the Pentagon years later as I was growing up.

In my family, we have our share of veterans. My nephew, Tim Keesecker is
currently serving in the U.S. Army, and my cousin Bill Hickman is a retired
veteran of the Wyoming USAF National Guard. They heard the call, and decided to
dedicate their lives to this country!

Thanks to All
*************

Today, we should remember those who gave the Supreme Sacrifice in service to
this country. Thanks to all of those for the freedom we enjoy as a result of
their efforts. 

For those serving today, or those who served in the past. Thank you for that
service as well. Our mission is to keep you alive, to provide you with the
resources you need to do your jobs, so you can protect us all.

Roie R. Black,
Major, USAF (Retired)

