Healing 101
###########

:date: 2014-07-15
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer

Now that it has been a few weeks since my surgery, it is time for a review of
the healing process. This part is simple. You sit (or lay) around and watch TV
waiting for your body to try to undo all the stuff the doctors did to save your
life. You also try not to think about everything. At least that is what I have
been doing. It seems like I am wasting a bunch of time (especially doing the TV
part), but it seems to be working. I feel a lot better now. Unfortunately, I am
an impatient sort of person, and it ain't over yet!

My current day job
******************

My daily schedule is a bit of a mess. I tend to get up around the time Cheryl
starts getting ready for work. Even though she tries to let me sleep, I still
seem to hear her and wake up about half way. I may not actually get up until
after she leaves, but I do start the process of getting moving. Normally, I
watch CNN to see what kind of mess the world is in today. Unlike many of my
students, I seem to care what is going on in other places. I got in the CNN
habit while stationed at SAC Headquarters in Omaha many years ago. I was amazed
that many of the SAC command folks had a live CNN feed in their offices. It
seems that they got a better sense of world events that way, rather than
depending on official military news channels! I watched many of the big events
of the day on these sets during staff meetings.

My big problem with CNN these days is that my favorite edition (Headline News)
seems to be more of a TV version of People Magazine. I really do not care about
most things going on in Hollywood, or what is hot on You-Tube, or the latest
trial of some bozo who did in their girl/boy friend! So there!

After my news habit has been fed, I check email and settle in to the really
important decisions of the day. Do I watch them restore old cars, build new hot
rods, or watch them build a really weird motorcycle I would be afraid to even
sit on much less ride?

This goes on pretty much all day, with occasional breaks for food (Ensure).
Cheryl comes home in the evening and we share dinner together, then we both go
back to work until bed time. I seem to keep at things until around 1AM and the
cycle continues. What a life!

What I really do is let those shows run while I work on my laptop, writing
software for courses I teach, or just keeping up with what is new in the
technology world. The TV is running, and I may be aware of it, but I have never
been one to sit and actually do nothing but watch TV. I get a lot of work done
doing things this way, and my mind is fully concentrated on that and not my
current situation. That helps the healing process a lot!

Do I actually get anything done? That is hard to tell since none of my projects
seem to be finished. I feel like I am wasting time doing little, but Cheryl
reminds me I am still resting after the train wreck. My body is feeling better,
but it is still pretty weak. I find out how true that is if I try to push
things much (see below).

Sigh!

Eating
******

My biggest headache is eating. I cannot do that very well. It seems that the
swallowing process got hit pretty hard by the Chemo and the surgery. I can
swallow thick fluids, but not normal foods. So, I am on an Ensure/Baby food
diet. (The good side of this is I am losing weight! Something I needed to do
anyway!) 

Fluids need to be thickened with some stuff we got introduced to in the
hospital. It is clear, tasteless and you mix a packet in with a drink to make
it "thicker". I use it mostly to make swallowing Ensure easier. The baby food
seems OK.

Unfortunately, the surgery did a number on the left side of my mouth. I lost
most of the feeling on that side since they had to cut a lot of the nerves to get rid
of the cancer! If you look at the pictures I posted last time, you see that the
left side of my mouth seems to droop. It does, and it does not close tightly so
when I put stuff in my mouth, it has a tendency to leak out on that side. I am
getting in the habit of taking a bite, then sticking a finger up to my face to
try to seal that side up. If I succeed, I get to eat nicely, otherwise I drool
and make a mess. 

I "dress" for dinner by tucking  a towel into my shirt to catch my misses. My
measure of things getting better is how messy the towel is after meals. Things
are getting better, but we will be talking about all of this with the doctors
in September!

Amazing Visions
***************

One of the interesting (and annoying) things I am dealing with are images I see
when I close my eye, or when it is dark in the room. According to my
Ophthalmologist, this is my brain trying to make sense out of signals it used to
get from the missing eye and it will go away eventually. For now it is just
weird.

What I see is a pattern of small green lines on a black background. The pattern
I see is weird, and it seems different every time I see it. Basically, it looks
like a random grid of shapes, each of which has a maze-like pattern of lines
inside. At first, I thought I was seeing the after-effects of playing Mah-jong
(with tiles each one holding a pattern of some sort), but the grid is not that
uniform. It is just random shapes filled with lines. 

There are hundreds of them in the field, and if I try to look closely at them,
they seem to change as I move my eye around to focus on different parts. Maybe
it has something to do with the structure inside my eye. Who knows.

The problem with all of this is it is messing up my low-light vision. Until I
get used to the darkness, moving around in the dark is frustrating, because i
cannot see anything but the pattern. If there is light on anywhere, my eye
picks it up and I do not notice the pattern as much, but it is still there.

I would like to draw a picture of what I see, but it does not stay fixed well
enough to do that, so I guess all I could do it draw something similar and see
if that is good enough. I may do that before seeing the doctors at M. D.
Anderson again.

Weird!


Road Trip
*********

Cheryl and I did a big road trip to Kansas City for the Fourth of July, to
visit kids, grandkids, and even great-grandkids. (YIKES! Am I that old?) We
spent a week visiting and working on our restoration project house up there.

This was the first time I tried to sit in a vehicle for more than the few hours
it takes to get to Houston and M. D. Anderson! We took my new truck (which
Cheryl loves to drive!) and broke the trip up into two parts. We stopped in
Oklahoma City and spend the night with my good friends Jim and Patty Petty. 

We had a great (but short) visit with them and found out them Oklahoma is now
one of the top earthquake centers of the country. They have been having shakes
pretty regularly, but nothing enough to cause any real damage. We missed
feeling one, but Patty did let us know that they had another shake after we
left the next morning. All of this is due to the "fracking" they are doing to
extract oil from the old fields all over the state. I suppose that as we get
closer to actually running out of oil, more of this kind of thing will be
happening.

What is that? You do not believe we will run out of oil? You need to look at
the production and consumption numbers and see how fast we have been using up
all those old dinosaurs! We may not run out in my lifetime (!), but I am
betting this will become a serious issue for some of those kids alive today!

Working on the house
********************

Cheryl and I bought the house in KC so we could spend more time with the
grandkid! Colin is now pushing seven, so we need to get this place done soon.
(Let's see, grandparents are supposed to wind the kids up, then leave them to
their parents when they are done. The KC house is where we will hide!)

Fortunately, most of the hard part of the restoration is done, and we managed
to check a number of things off of our list while up there this time! In the
end, we got much more done than we expected!

We took an air mattress with us, and set it up so I could rest if things got
too tiring. I was not expecting to need that, but it turned out I really did.

Son Scott, our resident architect, came to the house several times to work on
putting up the trim around all the windows and doors in the place, and got most
of that done!  The truck servedus well, going to Lowes multiple times to but
lumber. The short bed was no problem, and our checkbook is a bit lighter due to
all the wood we bought! Cheryl's job was to paint the ceilings in the entire
place. 

I tried to help with all of this, and did for a while.  But, I discovered that
standing up all day was more tiring than I expected, so I ended up taking a few
naps while Cheryl worked to get the painting done. I actually slept through a
lot of power hammer work while Scott put up the trim! We got most of all this
done, but ran out of paint with just a bit of the front hallway left to do, and
the place is looking really great! (This is a pay-as-you-go project, and we
have been at this for over three years now!)

We also ordered the kitchen cabinets so we can start finishing the kitchen off,
and met with tile installers who will be working on all the bathrooms shortly.
We really need bathrooms! So far, we have been going to Burger King when
needed, and I suppose that has to stop eventually! 

The trip back home we did in one long shot. I managed it well enough, but did
nap more than I should have, I did a couple of turns driving, but Cheryl ended
up doing more than her fair share!

One more vacation trip
**********************

The KC trip did tell me one thing. I am not up to a long drive alone. Next
week, I am going to Dayton, Ohio, them to Muncie, Indiana for the model
airplane Nationals with my friend from back in D.C, Jim Coffin. I had thought of doing
another road trip, but as tired as sitting in the truck made me on that last
trip, I decided to fly to Dayton and rent a car so I can revisit Dayton, then
scoot over to Muncie which is only about 80 miles away.  

One Eye?
********
       
I am still getting used to the one eye life. I still feel like I am in a box,
especially when I am outside. I keep remembering how big the world seemed when
I lived in New Mexico and had 100 mile horizons in all directions. The world
feels so much smaller now, but I am told that feeling will go away eventually. 

Driving is no big deal. The only time I have problems is pulling into parking
spaces, or the drive through the ATM lane. I cannot tell exactly where the
right bumper is, so I do things very slowly, just in case. So far, I have not
bumped into anything, and feel pretty good driving!

I did add two wide angle blind spot mirrors to the truck rear view mirrors.
Those are great! Especially on my blind side, I have little problem keeping
track of the traffic around me. 

Wrapping up
***********

Cheryl and I are still getting a ton of support from family and friends, and
we both seem to be holding up well. The KC trip was a big help. We managed to
get out of the routine and do something fun for a change. I have not been
thinking much about the cancer thing at all, and that helps mentally. I am
hoping to enjoy the Dayton/Muncie trip as well.

I still get email from folks who actually read this blog of mine, and it always
makes me feel good knowing it helps others as much as it helps me in writing it
all. I hope it is not too boring!

We both want everyone to know how much we appreciate your support, and prayers!
They are working! Thank you!

Oh, wait, another motorcycle rebuild show is coming on, I need to go! Bye!
 
