..  _rocket-scientist:

###############################
How I became a Rocket Scientist
###############################

:date: 2009-10-09
:category: Life
:tags: Curiosity, Aviation, History

..  image:: images/RocketMan.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: RocketMan

Well, maybe not that kind of Rocket Scientist, but a more normal one.

..  note::

    This lecture was given to a group of about 40 third grade science students
    at Clayton Elementary school in Austin on October 9, 2009. Thanks to Logan
    Mulanax and Gina Reed Lacy for the invitation to speak!


*****************************
Wow! I AM a Rocket Scientist!
*****************************

I have two college degrees that say so! Neat!
=============================================

How I got there and what I got to do with all that education is the story I
want to tell you kids - because my journey to become a rocket scientist really
started right where you are today!

***************************
Growing up in Washington DC
***************************

I was born in Washington, DC. My mom worked for the U.S. Army in the Pentagon,
and my dad was an accountant. They met while World War II was going on! But I
was lucky! I had a second set of parents!

..  image:: images/Evelyn_and_Andy.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Evelyn_and_Andy

Evelyn and Andy lived next door to my parents when I was born, and I became
their kid as well. Andy flew bombers in World War II, and I remember him
telling me stories about flying when I was very young! It sounded like fun
(even though it was not really - wars are not fun at all!) Here is the plane
he flew:

..  image:: images/A26.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: A26_bomber

As soon as I could walk, Andy started taking me to the museums of the
Smithsonian Institute on the Mall. The one I liked best was the one that had
airplanes in it.

..  image:: images/ArtsAndIndustries.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: ArtsAndIndustries

As you entered the front door of this building, there were two airplanes
hanging in the room. The first was the Wright Flyer:

..  image::     images/WrightFlyer.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: WrightFlyer

This picture was taken when the plane was first displayed in the museum. The
second plane was this one:

..  image:: images/Spirit.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: SpiritOfStLouis

Do you recognize it? It is the Spirit of St. Louis that flew non-stop to Paris
from America only about 24 years after the Wright Brothers first flew in North
Carolina!

*********
Curiosity
*********

As I got older, I continued to hang out in the Smithsonian after school,
looking at all kinds of things. I snuck into the back rooms of the museum and
met some interesting people who worked in the archives. I was even introduced
to Dr. Paul Garber, the curator of the aviation side of the Smithsonian, and
the father of the National Air and Space Museum.

I was amazed at the inventions people had come up with and I wanted to know
how everything worked.

How about a steam engine?
=========================

..  image:: images/SteamEngine.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: SteamEngine

Or a big locomotive?
====================

..  image:: images/Locomotive.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Locomotive

How about a cool diamond?
=========================

..  image:: images/HopeDiamond.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Hope Diamond

Or a big elephant?
==================

..  image:: images/Elephant.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Elephant

OK, so I did not really want to know how that one worked!

No matter how cool all these exhibits were, I always ended up looking at the
airplanes:

..  image:: images/BellX1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Bell X1

This was the first one to break the sound barrier - about 700 miles per hour!

*******************
Dreaming of flight!
*******************


I wanted to fly! As I got older, I discovered that I was pretty good at
drawing, so I took a bunch of art classes in school. We went to the art
museums on the Mall, and I got to learn a lot about art. Leonardo Da Vinci was
one of my favorite artists - He was good at art and an inventor who dreamed of
flying just like me! Here is his idea for a flying machine:

..  image:: images/DaVinci.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: DaVinci Sketch

I could imagine strapping into this thing and flapping my arms and flying all
over the place. Sadly, humans are not strong enough to do this - but a kid can
dream, right?

One day, my mom took me to the Pentagon to see a man fly with a rocket
strapped to his back:

..  image:: images/RocketBelt.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Rocket Belt

Boy, did I want one of those things. (I keep looking at the picture to see if
I can see myself. I am in that crowd somewhere!)

***************
Model Airplanes
***************

My dad took me to see my first real model airplanes. We went to Andrews Air
Force Base near Washington and watched people fly model they built all by
themselves. I was too young at the time to get very interested, but that
changed very soon!

One day, when I was 8 years old, a magical thing happened to me. I was
delivering newspapers to earn spending money and as I came around the corner
of a building near my home, I saw a man fly a model airplane that looked like
this:

..  image:: images/GadFly.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: GadFly model

I was amazed at how real this model looked when it was flying, and how neat it
was watching it fly in circles in his yard for several minutes. I bugged the
man to teach me how to build one! That day started me on an adventure that
ended up with me being a rocket scientist! I can still remember the day, even
now! How cool is that?

Eventually, my friends and I earned enough money to buy kits for model
airplanes we could fly on school playgrounds - with real engines. Here is one
I used to own:

..  image:: images/ControlLine1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Control Line Airplane

We flew the wings off of this thing, and spent all our money on fuel and
rubber bands to hold things together!

Eventually, I started building some amazing models powered by rubber bands. I
designed and built a model helicopter and ornithopter (that flies like
Leonardo's machine by flapping it's wings).

..  image:: images/RecordSetters.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Record setters

I even set a National Record for the longest flight by a helicopter model for
my age group!

..  image:: images/Record.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: National Record

***************
Off to College>
***************

As I got close to going to college, my art teacher wanted me to become a
professional artist. But when I looked at the drawings I was doing:

..  image:: images/Glider1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Glider1

And this one:

..  image:: images/QueenAir.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Queen Air Sketch

I knew I really wanted to become an aeronautical engineer! So off I went to
Virginia Polytechnic Institute where I entered as an aerospace engineering
student!  

*****
Space
*****

While I was in high school, the Russians launched the first satellite -
SputNik

..  image:: images/Sputnik.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Sputnik

Everyone who could went outside and looked into the sky to see if they could
see the thing. I remember seeing a blinking light sail across the sky so fast
and high it could not be an airplane. That was really something in space!

*************************
Everyone got space fever!
*************************

Here are a few early TV programs that explained how we would get to the moon:

* `Werner Von Braun explains the trip to the moon <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ILjXGfTkKvk>`_
* `Walt Disney's Man in the moon <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_drW76wUuD4>`_
* `Wiley Ley explains rockets <http://www.graspr.com/videos/Disney-s-Man-in-Space-3-of-6-How-Rockets-Work-1>`_

******************
McDonnell Aircraft
******************

I needed a way to pay for college, so I entered a program called "cooperative
engineering" where a student would go work for some company and learn about
the profession they were studying while going to school. For three years I
went to school for one term, then to work for the next.

The company I went to work for was McDonnell Aircraft in St Louis. Wow! These
folks were building our first space capsules and jet fighters as well. What a
cool place to work!

I got to see real space craft being built.

This one is the Mercury capsule. It carried the first Americans into space.

..  image:: images/Mercury.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Mercury capsule

They let us out of school so we could go see John Glenn's parade with
President Kennedy. Glenn was the first American to orbit the Earth!</p>

..  image:: images/JohnGlenn.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: John Glenn

This is the Gemini capsule that carried two men into space. I got to watch the
Astronauts practice their missions in a giant vacuum chamber at the plant!</p>

..  image:: images/Gemini2.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Gemini capsule

And sit in the cockpit of a really neat fighter jet:


..  image:: images/Phantom.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Phantom jet

They even let me sit in one of these things when the engine was running, but
it was tied down to the ground so it would not fly away - Phooey!

Every day, when I went to work, I got to walk down the assembly line where
they built these planes:

..  image:: images/Factory1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: McDonnell assembly line

I did not forget my model airplane hobby. Here is my first Radio Controlled
model:

..  image:: images/FirstRC.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: First RC model

I also build models that were lighter than a penny! This one is covered in a
thin plastic film and flew for over a half hour inside big buildings on a
wound up rubber band!

..  image:: images/Indoor1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Indoor model

And, I went back and visited my favorite museum as well - now they had rockets
on display:

..  image:: images/AIRockets.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Rockets at SI

*********************
Joining the Air Force
*********************

If you love cool airplanes and rockets, the place to work is the U.S. Air
Force, so I joined while I was in college. As part of my ROTC training, I went
on a number of field trips, to cool places like Cape Canaveral (Cape Kennedy)
where the space rockets were being launched. Here is a picture of me flying an
Air Force transport plane on our way to Florida:

..  image:: images/BigIron.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Big Iron

When I graduated, I went on to graduate school with NASA paying for my
advanced education. I learned how to design airplanes and space vehicles using
computers.

This is what air looks like flowing over the wing of a jet airplane:

..  image:: images/CFD1.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: CFD1

And here is a picture showing the different air pressures on the Space Shuttle
gets as it reenters the atmosphere!

..  image:: images/CFD2.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: CFD2

All of this work was done with really big computers. We told the computer what
the airplane looked like (just like they do in video games today), then used
complicated math to figure out how it would fly! My Master's thesis was on a
system that used a big balloon to slow down a space craft so it would fall out
of orbit! I even got to present it to a big crowd of scientists in New York
City!

After graduate school, I went to work as a research scientist in the Air Force
at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.

****************
Learning to Fly!
****************

Since I was not a pilot in the Air Force, I decided to learn to fly. I finally
flew by myself for the first time in one of these:

..  image:: images/Cessna150.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Cessna 150

I even got the learn to fly on the same field the Wright Brothers used when
they tested their airplanes in Dayton, Ohio!

Eventually, I learned how to fly like an air show pilot in one of these:

..  image:: images/Decathalon.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Decathelon

I can still remember flying upside down wondering why my feet did not fall to
the ceiling of the plane!

************
More history
************

The first job I had in the Air Force was in a research lab where I used the
biggest computers in the world. One of the scientists I got to work with was a
nice fellow named Hans Von Ohain (on the right):

..  image:: images/Whittle_Von_Ohain.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Whittle and Von Ohain

What I did not know at first, was that when this man was just 25 years old, he
built the very first jet engine to fly in the world! He is known as the
co-inventor of the jet engine, with Frank Whittle of England. Here is the
plane that was powered by Hans' engine:

..  image:: images/Heinkel_He_178.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Heinkel HE 178

I continued to fly model airplanes when I was in the Air Force. One of the men
I flew with was Dick Rutan. Dick's brother was Burt Rutan, a designer of
really neat airplanes. Dick flew this airplane that his brother built around
the world with Jeana Yeager, non-stop!

..  image:: images/voyager.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Voyager

I got to hold the wing tip of this plane while it was taxiing out to take off
at an air show before it went to the Smithsonian!

One of the scientists who worked with me in the lab was Guion Bluford, who was
working on his Doctorate degree in Aerospace Engineering. Guy applied to be a
Shuttle Mission Specialist. He was selected and was the first African-American
man in space:


..  image:: images/Bluford.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Guy Bluford

I was invited to his first launch as a guest of the crew!

..  image:: images/NightLaunch.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Shuttle night launch

This was the first launch of the Shuttle at night! It was dark until they lit
up the rocket and boy was it loud!

In summer, 2010, Guy invited me back to Cape Kennedy to join his family and
friends as he was inducted into the Astronaut Hall of Fame. I got to hang out
with about 35 astronauts from space programs all the way back to those Mercury
projects I was so fascinated by in high school.

Here is a shot of Guy and I right after the dinner to honor these folks:

..  image:: images/GuyAndMe.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Guy and me

The dinner was neat, we ate below a real Saturn-V rocket, hanging over our
heads:

..  image:: images/Chandelier.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Saturn V chandelier

The group inducted this year included Guy, Kathy Thornton, Ken Bowersox, and
Frank Culbertson. I even got to chat with Kathy about fixing the Hubble Space
Telescope. I watched her during her space walk at 2AM on NASA television back
in 1993.

..  image:: images/Inductees.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Inductees

***********
Rocket Man!
***********

When I left Dayton, I went to work at Strategic Air Command in Omaha, Nebraska
where my job was to figure out how far missiles could fly. I also ran a group
of engineers who programmed the computers on the our Peacekeeper missile:

..  image:: images/Peacekeeper.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Peacekeeper missle

Every once in a while, we would fly one of these from California 6000 miles to
the south Pacific ocean, just to make sure it worked the right way!

**************
Rocket Science
**************

So, what does a rocket scientist need to know?

Well, you would be surprised to know that there are tons of fun things to work
on in rocket science. Here is a list I thought up:

Aeronautical engineering - how a rocket flies through the air
=============================================================

..  image:: images/CFD2.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: CFD3

The Shuttle is just a big glider when it comes back to Earth. It does not fly
very well - sort of like a brick. But, it does the job of getting the crew
into space and back home safely!

Rocket engines - how an engine works
====================================

..  image:: images/RocketEngine.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Rocket engine

Ugh, the stuff at the bottom is more of that math stuff! (You do need to learn
a lot of math to be any kind of scientist!)

Computers - control everything
==============================

..  image:: images/Cray2.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Cray 2

My last job in the Air Force was directing the computer center at the USAF
Phillips Space Research Laboratory in Albuquerque New Mexico. We ran one of
these $8,000,000 machines that was used by over 2000 scientists to do advanced
research!

Navigation - how to guide a rocket into orbit, or beyond
========================================================

..  image:: images/MoonFlight.png
    :width: 600
    :align: center
    :alt: Moon FLight plan

If you do not figure this out right, you get "Lost in Space", just like to old
TV show!

Robots - rockets carry robots to other planets
==============================================

..  image:: images/MarsRover.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Mars Rover

This is "Rover" who is still wandering around on Mars today, but he is getting
pretty old and is a bit lame. I teach my students at ACC how to program the
computers on robots that are a bit simpler (and cheaper) than Rover!

*************************
How do YOU get to be one?
*************************

What should you do if you want to become a Rocket Scientist?

Be curious
==========

I was really curious! About everything! I wanted to know how everything
worked, especially how airplanes and rockets worked. I probably drove my
parents crazy asking how stuff worked. We did not have Google around to help
explain things back then!

Study in school
===============

So I studied a lot of science and math in school. I read a lot of books, even
books I could not understand very well. I also took things apart, and tried to
put them back together - all while trying to understand how people made all
this cool stuff that is all around us. (Be careful if you do this, your
parents will get mad if you take the toaster apart without their help, or the
TV! Mine did, and I was grounded for a week!) You might be surprised to
discover how many things around your home are actually also found on space
craft. People do need to live in space these days! You might be one of them!
(Look around - what do you see in your classroom that might be on the Space
Station?)

Build things
============

I learned to build models that taught me how airplanes actually flew. In fact,
when I first got in a real plane as a pilot, I already knew what I needed to
do! I just had to get used to doing all that thousands of feet in the air -
YIKES! I did not fly model rockets, but they are available today in most hobby
shops.

Learn more about computers
==========================

Sorry, I did not play video games (they did not exist yet!) When I started
working at McDonnell Aircraft, they helped me learn how to program computers
so they would do things I wanted them to do. You can do this today. Here is a
link to a really cool program designed for beginners who want to build
interesting programs.

..  image:: images/Scratch.png
    :align: center
    :width: 600
    :alt: Scratch program

You can download this program from here:

*   `Scratch <http://scratch.mit.edu/>`_

You can use this to learn how to build all kinds of programs on your computer!

There are a few video games I do use today.

Microsoft Flight Simulator can teach you how a real airplane flies! And there
are flight simulators that teach you how to fly radio control model airplanes
(ask Logan about this)

Keep your mind on your goal
===========================

I always knew I wanted to fly. I ended up flying all kinds of planes. I have
flown big Air Force tankers, and tiny home built airplanes, and tons of
models. I never rode a rocket (yet) but I have a good friend who has, and I
love to hear his stories. I have owned real airplanes and enjoy just flying
around looking at the clouds poking holes in them!

********
Have fun
********

In my entire life, I have always tried to have fun doing things. I was lucky
to have amazing jobs, and get to know amazing people. Above all, I got a
chance to help build a world where YOU can be whatever you want to be, and
have cool gadgets to help you live a fun life.

Today, I teach computer science at Austin Community College, and still am
having fun.

Good luck in your science class, and thanks for letting me tell my story!

    | Roie Black, Major, USAF (retired)
    | BS., MS., Aerospace Engineering (Va Tech)
    | MS., Computer Science (Texas State)
    | Professor, Computer Science (Austin Community College)
    | `email <mailto://rblack%40austincc.edu>`_
    | `website <http://www.austincc.edu/rblack>`_
