Surgery
#######

:author: Roie Black
:date: 2014-05-07
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer
:Title: Surgery

Hello again!

Last week, Cheryl and I made a trip back to Houston to talk with the doctors
about the next step, surgery! The chemo has done what it can, shrunk the tumor
as much as it can and actually made it possible to go in and remove it with
surgery. That was not a clear option originaly, so that much is good news. The
only problem is that we do not know if the cancer has spread into the eye area
and if they can save the eye.

So, we went through a series of blood work, and doctors visits to make sure I
was ready for surgery. The internal medicine doctor wants me to get more
exercise to strengthen my systems for recovery, so I am on a walking program
now. That means I walk about two miles each day, which is helping my fatigue
issues. Otherwise, all the doctors are happy with how I am doing.

We visited with Dr. Keis to make sure the last round of chemo went well, and he
cleared me for surgery as well.

Finally, we saw Dr. Lai, the head of my treatment team, who went over the
surgery plan. They will go into the sinus area below my left eye and remove the
tumor. He will try to save my eye, but his plan is to go for longevity and if
the eye must go, it will go. What I do not like is not knowing what will happen
until I wake up from the surgery. 

Radiation cannot happen, so this surgery is my only hope for removing this
tumor. Dr. Lai is confident he can get it out. If anything comes back, we will
have to deal with it with chemo, hopefully not the same kind as I have been
getting, since that is actually pretty hard to take.

Prayer time
***********

So, we are on schedule for surgery for May 13. Cheryl will be staying in the
hotel attached to the hospital and I will be there for around three days. In
the meantime, I get to pray that I keep my eye, and that he gets all of the
cancer in this surgery. We can use all the help we can get, so any praryers you
folks can offer will be much appreciated!

My next post will be after the surgery. Hopefully we will have good news!

