#########################
Into the Final Count Down
#########################

:date: 2008-04-14
:category: Life
:tags: Cancer
       
Hi everyone!

We are in the final countdown - YEAH! Eight more sessions to go! It is getting
a bit harder now, since everything hurts in the area getting radiation, but it
is nowhere as bad as some folks seem to get, so I count my blessings every
day! Cheryl will be getting a short break for the next few weeks, since my
sister is coming in from D.C. to help baby-sit me for a while.

I still believe in the Tooth Fairy, but that darned fairy owes me for a few
teeth I lost in surgery. Maybe the AFLAC duck is picking up those duties,
since we are getting money from him as a result of that surprise cancer policy
we remembered we kept from several years ago. All we need to do is send in the
bills and they send us money - how neat is that (go get yourself one of these
if you can!)

Speaking of bills, in order to file with AFLAC, we need to send in a detailed
bill. So, I got one for the radiation treatments I have been having. (Holy
Healthcare, BatMan!) WOW! each treatment costs about $3400! That works out to
about $280 per second of radiation plus a few targeting x-rays they need to
take before they start each day. And we have 35 sets of those! YIKES! We do
not know how much of this Blue Cross will be paying yet, but we have our
fingers crossed!

I am back on the chemo treatments as well, and have just one more to go. They
have added a few extra treatments to replenish minerals, and to augment my
anti-nausea medicines, but everything will be over on that last day of
radiation - one week from this next Wednesday! Then we switch gears and work
on healing from all this mess! That could take anywhere from 6-8 weeks. Once
we get past that time, they can do the PET scan and make sure all of the evil
is gone. We are really looking forward to that scan!

Thanks again for all the well wishes and prayers. We could not get through
this without our support system and you are all part of that, a gift we really
appreciate!

Roie

