Hanger Talk
###########

:date: 2014/12/06
:tags:  Aviation

..  note::

    You may notice (yet, again) a facelift on my blog site today! I build this
    blog using some nice open-source tools, and they updated several of the
    parts I use. So, I went looking at several sites for examples of the way
    they laid things out, and settled on this one for a while. Plus it now
    shows my favorite airplane, and the one I probably owe my career to. So
    here it is!

Pilots love to sit around and tell tall tales of their flying experiences. I
guess I am no exception, so here are a few of my flying tales.

Solo
****

There is no need to tell this tale, I told it already! Check out `Solo
<{filename}/2009/02/09/Solo.rst>`_:

Learning the Controls
*********************

Airplanes are not like cars. Basically all you need to do in a car is keep the
critter between the lines painted on the road, obey the signs, and occasionally
figure out how to make it go forward or backward. Simple stuff a 9th grader can
do in his grandfathers pickup truck while trying to hit all the cow-pies in a
big field!

Airplanes are different! Very different.

Doing three things at Once
==========================

Basically, you still need to focus on similar things, but the big new one is
keeping the craft straight and level. For a beginner, that can be a challenge. 

You have three different kinds of controls to worry about. For the kind of
plane I started learning how to fly, I sat in the pilot's seat with a wheel in
front, just like in a car, and two pedals under my feet, that you could push.
They did this:

    * Pitch
      
        * Pull the wheel back, the nose of the craft goes up.
          
        * Push the wheel in, the nose goes down!

    * Roll
        
        * Turn the wheel to the left, the right wing goes up, the left wing
          goes down.

        * turn the wheel to the right, the left wing goes up, the right wing
          goes down 
    
    * Yaw (no, not yawn!)

        * Push the right rudder pedal, the nose goes to the right

        * Push the left rudder pedal, the nose goes to the left

Sounds simple enough, but the trick is making the plane go where you want it to
go by making movements (usually small) in all three directions at the same
time. With practice (a lot of practice) you stop thinking about it and it just
happens. Magic!

But getting there takes time. My favorite practice was:

Ss Along a Road
===============

Practice sessions usually involved flying from Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
over Xenia, Ohio (site of a horrible tornado event in 1974), then down into the
farmlands south of that town. We would hunt up a long straight road and fly
straight toward the road. As you passed over the road, you picked out a
telephone pole, or some other stationary object, and used that point as the
center of a circular path you made the plane fly as you turned the craft 180
degrees in whichever direction you started turning. When you reached the road
again, you switched your focus to a spot on the other side of the airplane and
did the same thing, only this time turning in the opposite direction. The
result is that you flew a big "S" (quite giggling) turn in the sky. Usually you
kept doing that until the road ran out.

This gave you a lot of practice using all the controls to fly a smooth
"coordinated" path through the sky. You also had to keep your eyes sharp to
make sure you did not run into some other silly goof doing the same thing in
the opposite direction. 

Touch and Go
************

Another fun session involved just flying around an airport, practicing take-off
and landing. You had to line the airplane up at the end of the runway, push in
the throttle (which you did with your hand, not your foot), and keep the plane
moving straight down the runway until it was going fast enough to lift off.
Sounds simple, but it gets involved. 

Usually, you accelerate a bit, then pull back slightly on the wheel to try to
lift the nose up. It will not do so until it gets to a certain speed. Then you
let off slightly and allow the plane to get light on its wheels, and eventually
it lifts off and you are flying. Then you have to keep the speed of the plane
under control as you focus on climbing away from the ground. All too soon, you
make a turn and start flying the "traffic pattern", a circuit around the field
whose direction depends on the wind, and eventually you end up turning back
towards the same runway and the goal is to land the plane again.

This involves slowing down, usually using something called "flaps", which are
big panels at the back of the wings that move downwards increasing lift, and
decreasing speed (all of which means you keep flying, only slower). You focus
on lining the airplane up with the centerline of the runway, and keep the plane
slowly settling toward the pavement (or grass, it all depends on the airport).
As you get just above the ground, you pull the nose up slightly, cut the power,
and let gravity bring you back to Mother Earth, hopefully with only the
slightest bump as the wheels touch down.

Any time I fly commercially, I always pay attention to how slight the bump is
when that huge airliner hits the runway. If the pilot does it well, I make a
point to congratulate him/her on a "nice landing". Trust me, they appreciate
that! They also deserve it. Landings are one of the more difficult parts of
flying to do well.

Why are Landings Hard?
======================

Well, we do not want to land hard, that much is obvious. What make them hard to
master is the part I left out in that bit above. The wind is usually blowing,
and never straight down the runway, it seems. That makes every part of the
take-off/landing exercise tough, because now you have to figure out how to do
all those things while the plane basically wants to fly sideways with the wind.
You are forced to do some unnatural things. Here is a picture of an airliner
doing something called "side-slipping" just before landing in a strong
cross-wind:

..  image::    images/SideSlipLanding.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: Croaa Wind Landing.

He is not flying across the runway, he is moving straight down that centerline
on the pavement. The trick is to get one wheel on the ground, then straighten
the craft out as you put the other two down so you roll straight down the
runway. That is harder to do than it is to explain. 

I got pretty good at this, and used to go up on windy days, just to practice
this kind of flying!

720 Degree Turns
****************

Another fun maneuver was flying a tight level circle in the sky, usually with
the wings up at a 60 degree angle from level (pretty steep). This makes you
feel about twice as heavy as normal, since it is a "2-G" maneuver. You only fly
this way when you need to turn in a hurry!

Flying this involves paying attention to a lot of things to keep the altitude
constant, and the "bank angle" (the tilt of the wings) constant as well. What
made it interesting was what happened when you finished the first 360 degrees
of the maneuver.

At the tip of a wing, the air essentially spills from the bottom side where the
pressure is high (from generating lift), to the top side, where the pressure is
low (actually "sucking" the wing upward, also part of generating lift). The
result is a horizontal tornado called a "tip vortex" that can spin away for
several minutes in the sky. It is invisible, but when you hit it, as you will
after that first 360 degrees of turn if you do this right, the vortex wants to
make the plane either tilt more, or less depending on which way you are
turning. That disturbance can continue as you fly through that weird vortex
sitting in the sky all around that second turn. Boy, do you have to work to
keep the plane where it is supposed to be during that second 360 degree turn!

Vortex Theory
*************

I actually had to study all this in my aeronautical engineering classes as
school.

A tip vortex is what spun a training flight upside down while a student was
trying to land one day, and convinced me that I needed to learn aerobatics
before I quit this learning stuff (I never have quit learning, by the way). 

Horizontal Tornadoes
====================

One hot summer day in Albuquerque, I was jogging along the runway at the ABQ
airport (where my office was) and a big airliner flew past me just before
touching down. Albuquerque is pretty dusty, since there is nothing but desert
around, so a huge tip vortex from that plane spun off of the wings, settled
down on the ground and washed over me as I was jogging. It felt like a small
tornado, with a ton of dust that stung my eyes to the point where I had to stop
and let it blow by! Wild to feel that!

Here is a really good look at one of these, being generated by an F16 fighter jet:

..  image:: images/F16Vortex.png
    :align: center
    :alt: F16 Tip Vortex

Navigating
**********

Going on long drives is fun, but you only go where the roads let you go. In
flying you go where you want, within limits.

Since there are no roads up there, pilots have to make sure they do not run
into each other. The thought of everyone owning a flying car and all jumping
into the sky and heading off whichever way they want strikes fear in my heart!)

One way to fly cross-country is to keep a pilot's map in your lap and pick out
landmarks as you fly. These can be radio towers, towns, even water tanks you
can read if you fly low enough. Hopefully, you can find the airport you want to
land at doing this. But his is not the best way to fly cross country!

There is a huge system of radio transmitters around the world, all sending out
signals that help pilots figure out what direction to fly to reach one
particular transmitter. You may have seen such a transmitter. It looks
something like this:

..  image:: images/VOR.png
    :align: center
    :alt: VOR transmitter

This is called a "Visual OMNI Range" (VOR) station.

Most airplanes carry two receivers that can tell you what direction to fly to
reach two different transmitters. Using that information, you can figure out
where you are on a map. (Hey, this was invented long before GPS took over the
world).

If you want to fly cross country, there are rules you have to follow. For
example, if you were flying east to west, there were certain altitudes you are
allowed to fly at. Those flying west to east have to fly at different altitudes
so planes do not run into each other. Additionally, there are standard routes
you could fly that go from one VOR transmitter to another, and with all of
this figured out, you set up a "flight plan" that you register with
the FAA to let then know where you are going to fly, and when to expect you at
your destination. If something happens, they could come look for you!

Unlike in driving, if you have problems, you cannot just pull over and call
AAA. You have to find a place to land and do so without killing yourself.

Emergency Landings
******************

When I took the check ride with an FAA examiner who was going to issue my
Commercial Pilot's License that day, we were flying along and he reached over
and yanked on the throttle control, essentially killing the power to the engine
(it was idling). I went into emergency landing mode, and started looking for a
field I thought I could put the plane down into, I spotted one, then went to
work trying to get the plane down to the right altitude to get into that field.
I got almost to the point of landing in the grass when the examiner put the
power back in and said "That was pretty nice. I had an emergency last week, and
put the plane down exactly in that field!" Boy was that a nice plus on that
test!

FLying is in My Blood
*********************

I cannot fly now, at least the way I want to, all because of my battle with
cancer. All of the drugs I have been on for so long makes the FAA worried about
my ability to do all of the things needed to fly, so I sit on the ground
looking up as I did as a kid way back when. I can do battle with them and prove
that all the weird chemicals are gone, but that takes time I do not seem to
have now. So all I am doing now is waiting for that durned J-79 turbojet engine
to get back to Houston, so I can take my ride in the F4D. Until that day, I
guess I will just remember the moments!

