TL;DR
#####

:Date: 2017-11-01
:Category: Life
:Tags: Stories

Ever seen this? It seems in the new age of "instant gratification, folks do not
want to read anything that is "too long".

::
    
    To Long; Didn't Read!

Everyone seems to be in a hury these days. My students do not want to learn
things by study, they want those topics injected into their systems somehow.
The old idea that you could learn a topic by putting the book under your pillow
while you sleep certainly will not work today. Most folks seems to read on
their tablets, and sleeping on those things is sure to crack the screens!

I hate to break it to you, but instant gratification may work for some things,
but to learn something, you need to dedicate some time to it.

::

    Learn C++ in 24 Hours

Yeah, right!

Those books hop off of the shelves, purchased by students in a hurry.  You
simply cannot learn a complex topic in 24 hours. Here is a much better idea:

::

    Learn C++ Really Slowly!

You need to study!. You need to experiment with new ideas, see what works, and
what does not work. You need to fail sometimes to learn anything well. Don't
just focus on something that works, break it!

A famous race car driver once said:

::

    If everything seems under control, you're just not going fast enough. 
    
    `Mario Andretti <https://www.brainyquote.com/authors/mario_andretti>`_

Fortunately, when learning how to program a computer, crashing does not hurt
much.

The point is simple. You need to explore the edges of a topic to see where they
are. In programming, that means making mistakes, and exploring the nasty error
messages you encounter when the program cannot be made to run, or when it runs
and gives garbage output instead of the cool stuff you hoped to see.

Here is my new mantra for my students: DS;DP!

::

    Didn't Study; Didn't Pass


Copy and Paste
**************

The "TL;DR" generation loves to copy and paste code I put into my lectures.
They get annoyed if that code does not work. To that I say:

::

    Ptooey!

Copy and paste teaches you not one thing. (Well, maybe it teaches you how to
copy and paste). If the code works, what did you learn?

I never copy and paste. Instead, I type the code in manually (it takes time).
In doing that, I actually read the code and think about it. I wonder why it is
written the way it is, and I actually critique that code. If something seems
wrong, I fix it! I am learning something, and I like that!


But I run into situations where learning seems like something to be avoided.

Sometimes, in a review, I go over the answers to questions that are really on
an exam. Students sit there, nodding their heads as we go over the topics, and
they still miss the question. I puzzle over this a lot! It almost seems like
the student is trying to fail. 

So, how to I change this?

A Better Way
************

I am always searching for a better way to reach my students. I try to create
assignments they will enjoy working on, while still pushing them into new
territory. You have to do that to learn anything. 

I remember my flying lessons well. My favorite instructor, General Stan Czyzak,
used to make me close my eyes, and put m hands in my lap, while he yanked the
airplane all over the sky for several minutes. When he was done, he would leave
the airplane in some situation and have me open my eyes and figure out what to
do to get us safely back to "straight and level". The first time he did that,
we were already "straight and level"! I almost sent us out of control trying to
fix something that was not even broke! I learned a lesson there, and never
forgot it. He did not once get me into a situation I did not recover from, in
spite of leaving me in some bizarre configurations.

I have my students explore new areas of the profession they see to enter. They
need to do this, and far too often, students enter my classes with little
motivation to explore these areas. They are stuck in their "comfort zone", a
sad place where things never change.

Perhaps I am defective. I do not have a "comfort zone"! Instead, I am most
comfortable out of that zone, in areas where I an learning something new. 

Slowly Pushing the Edge
***********************

Maybe the answer is that I am going too fast. There are a lot of cool things to
learn out there, and I am eager to explore all of that. There really is not
enough time to do that (in one lifetime). Maybe, I am pushing too hard in my
classes. The TL;TR generation does not want to take the time to learn these
things, so I have to force them over the edge. 

There is a limit to how far you can (or should) push. Too far, and they get
terrified, sometimes freezing up. So, maybe the answer is to take smaller steps
up to and over that edge. If you reach the real edge, push past it a tiny bit,
and survive, that edge is not so scary anymore. It is like my adventure
learning to race motorcycles, or fly airplanes. I pushed the edge often, and
survived. Did I become an expert at either? Not really. But I got quite good,
and I kept exploring that edge!

My plan is to keep pushing my students, to get them out of the "comfort zone"
they enter my classes stuck in. They will see new ways of doing their work, and
learn new tools, as they learn a new topic. 

However, instead of a few big steps into that new world, I plan on making hem
take many more small steps, and working harder to explain why those steps are
needed. In the end, I hope they see the value in approaching new topics with an
open mind, and not be in such a hurry to get over this learning stuff. 

Maybe what I really want to teach my students is this: SH;LM

::

    Studied hard; Learned much!

..  vim:ft=rst spell:
