
Fear
####

:Date: 2016-02-02
:Category: Life
:Tags: Recovery, Fear

Is cancer scary? Does it put fear in you? Does an event that changes your life,
perhaps forever, like a stroke or heart attack scare you? Welcome to living
with fear.

Trusting in God
***************

Last Sunday, dealing with fear was the message given by our friend Robb
Overholt, one of the teaching pastors at our church, gave. He told a story of
getting his son on his first roller coaster ride, when the mere thought of that
sent his son off the planet. His son survived, and the message went on with
other examples of walking with God as you face your fears in life.

My Vision Problem
=================

We missed that message, but it was put up as a video on our church website.
Cheryl and I had just returned from a meeting with my Ophthalmologist, and the
news we got was not good. My ongoing vision problems may have been a blood
clot, or a mini stroke. At the moment a field-of-vision test shows I have lost
significant sight in about half of my one remaining eye. This may be permanent,
I may outgrow it, we just do not know now. The good news is that there was no
sign of anything like a tumor in the eye, or a torn retina, and the problem has
not gotten worse in a week, but we still need to find out what is going on. Not
what we wanted to hear at all!

Now we have to work through that, and we start seeing doctor's to look into
that today. We watched Robb's message when we got home and were sitting there
trying to absorb this new turn of events. I think we both found his message
very helpful, enough so that it prompted me to send him an email about my
thoughts on living with fear. Here is what I sent him:

Living with Fear
================

To Robb,

Cheryl and I watched the video from last Sunday, after we got some not so good
news about my eye problems today. ( I could have had a minor stroke! We have to
look at that now!)

I have a few thoughts I would like to share with you.

First, you will never get Cheryl on a roller coaster. She has the "looks can
vaporize" power, and you would have been dust on the coaster floor if you
tried. (I did get her on a water ride at Silver Dollar City near Branson once.

For the last week, I have been living with the fear that I might be losing the
sight in my one remaining eye, so when we heard about your message, we both
knew we had to hear it.

I loved the roller coaster story, it reminded me of my days as a kid riding a
roller coaster at Glenn Echo, on the Potomac river. I never thought I would die
on that thing, but one morning, when some friends and I got to the park just as
it opened, we all raced to the coaster, eager for a ride, but the operator told
us we would have to wait. They turned the coaster loose for a test run, and it
never came back. It got to a hard turn and went straight off the tracks. They
closed the ride then, and the park shortly after. I had not thought about that
event in years. I guess it did not put any fear in me, since I rode many of
those beasts later. I was remembering that whole thing as I listened to your
story.

The whole idea of putting your faith in God and pushing through fear is
something I am pretty sure I have embraced most of my life. I found it easier
to do later in life, though. Maybe, having been through several fearful
moments, you really do have more confidence that you will reach the other side
of your fear. I think both Cheryl and I have seen that. The news we got today
may not have been so good, but we both still cling to our faith in God to see
us through this.

I believe there is yet another kind of fear, though. Cheryl and I have debated
this idea, but let me try to tell you where this thought came from.

I grew up in the Pentagon and listened to stories of those who fought in WWII.
My second dad, a next door neighbor, when i was born, told me many a tale about
his experiences flying a bomber when I was a kid, and a few years ago again
when he was in a nursing home near Annapolis. I am convinced many of the
current generations have absolutely no idea what life was like for those who
fought that war, or any war for that matter. I think the fears they faced were
on a different level.

To me, it is the fear you face when you really know the event can actually kill
you. It is not something others might find silly, it is real, and everyone can
see that. While your son just knew he was going to die if he rode that thing,
you knew the odds were very high he would survive. But how would you have
handled that moment if you knew he was right, he might really die? (You even
said you wondered if he was on to something). This is where Cheryl and I had
our debate. She feels that the fear of the roller coaster is the same fear,
that you could die, say of a heart attack, if the fear was strong enough. 

My feeling is that facing something that really can kill you, when the odds of
survival are simply not in your favor, is a higher lever kind of fear. My
second dad knew he had a three out of four chance of getting killed every time
he flew a mission, yet he did that 71 times over France and Germany. I was
stunned by that kind of strength of will then, and remain so today. How did
they do that? How did any of them charge into those battles just knowing they
might die at any moment, as they watched friends fall all around them?

I was privileged to attend a dinner where about a dozen Medal of Honor Award
winners (if that is the right word for that) were in the same room. I listened
to their stories and walked away in a cloud.  Was is confidence that God was
with then, that got them through those fears? I believe many survivors of the
war did say that was part of how they coped, but I just do not know.

The fear you face after hanging up the phone where you just heard "Mr. Black, I
am sorry to tell you this, you have cancer", to me is another example. That
doctor gave me a 75% chance of living five years that day, He put a new fear in
me, one that is with me every day. I am at eight years now. But living with the
fear that comes from knowing cancer is in you is very hard to fight through. I
have been told that cancer  is active in me four times now, and have survived
four pretty brutal surgeries so far. I am pretty sure I am stronger for all of
those battles, and have seen the power of walking with God through it all.

I would be happy to spend some time talking to you about any of this, if you
are interested. I seem to have a lot of time on my hands now, recovering from
my acquisition of a new titanium jaw.

I know many on the staff at Gateway are praying for us, and with us, as Cheryl
and I fight through our fears in this battle. We have seen the power of
trusting in God to be with us as we face our fears. (I try to keep mindful of
how this affects Cheryl, I just wish I could show that to her more.) We try to
have a conversation with God every time we visit doctors, either here or in
Houston.

Thanks for your message. It did help us, and it was right on target for us.
Very timely, in fact! It came at a moment when we needed just that topic.
Perhaps someone's hand was at work there?

Take care,

Roie Black

Live another Day
****************

Cheryl and I went to bed last night stunned by this turn of events. We were
praying (as we have done before) that we might be done with this nightmare. But
we have more battles to fight, and this will be hard. I have confidence that we
will be able to do this, but the thought of starting another round of tests and
treatments is not what we needed to hear now, three weeks after my last cancer
surgery.

Still, I am alive, able to write all of this down, and am getting stronger
every day. So, life does still have some good things for us.

All we can do is pray for the strength to fight this new battle, and trust in
God to help us through.


